
We are of our community – and our community is in pain. We cannot escape the problems of society – for we carry the successes and challenges of our community with us wherever we go. Left unchecked, racism, sexism, homophobia, and fear of the other can enter any organization or community – and destroy the foundations upon which we must build our future.

The past few harrowing days have laid bare how a lack of trust, respect, and leadership can tear at our social fabric. In these times, we must pull together and provide leadership in our own communities. Leadership is not about having all of the answers. It starts with unwavering principles that can steady us when the world seems unbalanced.

With all that is happening around us, let us recommit AAAS to these relevant principles:

    Diversity, equity, and inclusion along every axis are critical for our organization, the scientific enterprise, and our community to progress
    Ensuring lasting diversity, equity, and inclusion requires going beyond intervention to systemic change
    Systemic change begins with everyone feeling safe and respected
    Hatred, discrimination, and injustice have no place at AAAS, in science, or in our community

Let us recommit ourselves to these principles and rededicate ourselves to the mission of advancing science and serving society. Society needs us more than ever.

The coming weeks and months will bring further unprecedented challenges to us and our communities. What we do in this time will define us for a generation. In the face of national uncertainty, I am confident in this team’s ability to be a force for science, a force for good, and a support for one another. Our programs, publications, and advocacy are critical to a better and more just world. Your support makes each of these possible.

Nevertheless, a torrent of emotion has been unleashed in the last few days. It is understandable to feel anger, sadness, and helplessness. Many of us have been deeply impacted by these events. It is my hope that we come together as colleagues and friends to support one another. Science, scientists, and science advocates are going to be critical to ensuring we successfully navigate this troubled time together

"In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up — or go back."
ACM Stands with Those who promote inclusivity
In the United States, and throughout many regions around the world, current events have brought attention to the urgent need for equality and respect for all individuals. ACM reaffirms its commitment to fostering diversity and inclusion within the global computer science community.

As an international organization of nearly 100,000 professionals, ACM respects the essential worth of all people and firmly believes that diversity strengthens the scientific enterprise and society as a whole. ACM’s Code of Professional Ethics embodies these principles, and our Diversity and Inclusion Council works to translate them into effective action.

ACM is committed to creating an environment that welcomes new ideas and perspectives, and where hostility or other harmful behaviors are not tolerated. As an organization, we stand with those who promote inclusivity.


The AISES family shares in the pain and grief of the black community resulting from the murder of George Floyd and the long history of oppression and violence against their communities. As indigenous people, at AISES, we are guided by the traditional knowledge of our ancestors who have lived and died upon these lands since time immemorial. Among this knowledge is the deep understanding that "we are all related." It is this respect for relationships and community that guides AISES' programs and partnerships. For example, for several years now, AISES has been a part of the 50k Coalition alongside the National Society of Black Engineers, the Society of Women Engineers, and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers. Through partnerships like this, we have come to understand that our combined communities are stronger together. We have come to recognize that we are all working toward the same goals – diversity, equity, and inclusion for all communities and have learned that we can support one another through the adversity and challenges our communities face day in and day out. As such, today and every day, we stand with our black brothers and sisters in solidarity against the continued violence and systemic oppression of their communities. #blacklivesmatter

What do we tell our children, our students?
- Expressions from Alabama State University President, Dr. Quinton T. Ross Jr., on recent national events surrounding the death of George Floyd.
- By Dr. Quinton T. Ross Jr., President of Alabama State University.

"For the past few days, I, like many others have been viewing through the lens of the media, the reaction of our country to the deplorable and senseless death of yet another defenseless black person at the hands of a white police officer, a tragic mockery to the truth that Black Lives Matter. Similar to other Americans, I am overcome with a range of emotions.

As the father of two sons and as a black man myself, I can assure you that I am furious and deeply saddened by the death of George Floyd, as I am by every senseless killing of black males and females in America. It could have been either of my sons, my brothers, my nephews or nieces, my friends or even one of my students who lay on the ground, pleading for mercy on that horrific day. 

Looking into the eyes of my 11-year-old son and trying to help him comprehend what happened and what is happening in our nation, I am cognizant of the fact that I am old enough only to have read about the many civil rights protests and nonviolent demonstrations that have afforded me the opportunities that I have enjoyed during my lifetime.  While I was not an eyewitness to the protests, I do try to paint a picture for my son, drawing from my exposure to many civil rights icons and their recounting of historic events of the past, such as the Montgomery Bus Boycott, the march from Selma to Montgomery, the brutality of law enforcement officers such as Bull Connor and the story of Ruby Bridges. I am emotionally distraught about the stark parallel of our nation's present state of affairs and our nation's historical past.

I have been giving thought to this national crisis, especially as it relates to Alabama State University's rich history and her overwhelming contributions to the advancement of civil rights in the nation.  I am one of thousands of students who have matriculated and emerged from ASU with purpose and a true understanding of social justice and responsibility. At ASU, we learned the importance and the power of the vote.  The call to public service and advocacy was ingrained in our DNA by O' Mother Dear.

While I attempt to give some sensible explanation to the most recent senseless acts of brutality, I have reflected on my first real encounter with the reality of racist police violence against blacks in America.  It was the spring of 1991, just prior to my senior year in college, and I had just been elected President of the Student Government Association. This was the time that our nation witnessed Rodney King being brutally beaten by Los Angeles law enforcement officers after he led them on a high-speed chase.  I remember asking myself, "Is this what would happen to me as a black man if I found myself in a similar situation with authorities?" I vividly recall how the nation erupted into protests because of Rodney King's mistreatment, just like the protests that have erupted nationally because of the senseless death of George Floyd and others. Each incident is similar to the protests that happened across this nation in the 1960s due to social injustice.  As a young student, I was confused and enraged by what I witnessed. I remember the rumbling of unrest within our student body regarding Rodney King. We were all ready to act on our anger and frustration by taking to the streets of Montgomery to let our voices be heard.  Word of our intentions reached our President, the late Dr. C. C. Baker, who later became one of my mentors. My SGA leadership team and I were summoned to Dr. Baker's office, and it was there that I learned what social protesting was really all about. It is not about the destruction of property, looting or acting disorderly; it is about banding together peacefully with a common goal, with a purpose and a plan for change.  During the meeting, we discussed our desire to be heard and our passion for change, and emerged with a plan for a peaceful protest on the campus that historically has been a beacon for change—our home, our haven—Alabama State University.  This focusing event allowed me to lead my first press conference. It would be the first time I had ever spoken in front of news cameras. Every news outlet in the city was on campus that day as students gathered with community stakeholders in great numbers. I led the protest with a speech. Students and local elected officials were also able to have their voices heard as the media captured our impassioned sentiments and broadcast the event.  I share this personal experience not only to highlight the importance of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) in providing a platform for change, but also to emphasize the need to protest peacefully and with a purpose.

I offer that advice while understanding and even relating to the rage that has been unleashed across the nation by the infection of racism that is more potent than ever in America. Our nation has a new and improved infection of racism when George Floyd can plead for mercy while dying publicly under the force of a racist man's knee just as his forefathers died publicly hanging from a noose. There is a new and improved infection of racism when a young man by the name of Michael Brown can hold his hands up in surrender and still be shot to death in broad daylight in Ferguson, Missouri. There is a new and improved infection of racism when a man by the name of Eric Garner in New York City can tell authorities "I can't breathe"as he is choked to death.  The infection of racism is new and improved when a young man by the name of Trayvon Martin is gunned down in cold blood while walking from the store to his home. Racism is new and improved when Ahmaud Arbery can be gunned down while jogging not far from his home. There is a new and improved infection of racism when Breonna Taylor can be shot and killed by police officers as she lay sleeping in her apartment in Louisville, Kentucky. Let us not forget the infection of racism that related to the death of Sandra Bland, who was found hanged in a jail cell in Walker County, Texas, after being arrested for a minor traffic stop. Here in Montgomery, there is a new and improved infection of racism when a man by the name of Greg Gunn, who attended ASU, is chased and killed by a police officer just a few steps from his mother's front door. Their tragic deaths made headlines, but across this nation and even in this city, we could easily add more names to the rolls of those whose lives have been so tragically cut short with no cell phone cameras to capture their last, painful breaths.

With this in mind, we struggle with the question, "What should we tell our students?"The answer that I offer you is the same that I give to my sons. I ask that you find ways to protest peacefully, including exercising your personal responsibility to register to vote and then go vote, and committing yourself to continuing your education so that you are prepared to emerge as this nation's next generation of leaders. I ask that you resist the temptation to channel your anger into destruction; instead, channel your energy into the very thing that disturbs and disrupts those who would oppress you: Education.

Our nonviolent stand proved successful in the past, and I believe it could be the catalyst for real and impactful change today. Let peace be at the core of all of our actions.

While it seems as though remaining calm in the midst of a racist storm is a signal to be disrespected, disregarded and endangered, remember the lives that were lost to get us to this day. Remember the examples of those who were brutally beaten and rose up from that brutality to walk the halls of congress, to become mayors, governors, state legislators and community leaders. They are the ones upon whose shoulders we stand. Their sacrifices have afforded us the opportunity to stand and take up the mantle of peace, justice and equality for all. 

Stay in the fight against injustice my children and my students, with peace, purpose and a plan that saves us from self-destruction and allows us all to "breathe"freely."

News media contact: Kenneth Mullinax, 334-229-4104.



Our students, like Rondriquez White, who is also the co-founder of the Nashville Chapter of Black Lives Matter, are and always have been on the front lines of change in our country's history. As an organizer of this weekend's protest when asked about the extreme heat index by the media White says, "The temperature we face, the oppression that we face is even hotter."
As the U.S grapples with the murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbury and many other black men and women, it is during this painful time that we explicitly condemn racism and systematic oppression, and call for genuine change. We stand with the Black community and against anti-Blackness.
AnitaB.org was founded to increase the representation of women in in technology and ensure that women’s voices play a key role in shaping the future of the industry-and the extension of the world.
In the past, living mission-while created with the most progressive intentions- has sometimes fallen short of supporting every woman. Like many organizations’ histories, ours holds moments of erasure when it comes to uplifting Black people and women, the people who need it the most. We are working hard to live our values, both within our organization and as we work with our Partners to do the same.
We cannot allow this moment to pass us by and call our Partners to take action, including:
•        Increase your diversity. Hire Black people.
•        Contribute to the organizations that support the promotion of Black and other marginalized people.
•        Partner with public officials to change laws and policing to protect everyone.
•        Support protestors throughout the country by donating to bail funds.
The time is now to change our culture, create a more equal society and move forward together.
#BlackLivesMatter

So, here we are in 2020, painfully and acutely realizing that the long-held ideals of our nation, as embodied in the Constitution's aspirations of the right to equal justice, the right to pursue happiness and the right to individual liberty, are, in fact, unfairly and inequitably distributed across our society. This, of course, has been a reality since the founding of our Republic and, although we have made progress through our struggles and our changes, it is nonetheless jolting to see these inequalities manifested through the unfair treatment of individuals based on their race and ethnicity by the very government designed to protect and defend their rights as citizens.

The blatant abuse of power by the police as exhibited in the case of George Floyd, and many others, is in many ways akin to the actual abuses of power perpetrated against Americans in ways that led to the revolution against Great Britain. The very founding of our nation was a result of these mistreatments by the ruling government itself at the time.

Individuals have rights, the government must protect those rights, and the government must not be involved in injuring or diminishing those rights, particularly in its exertion of power towards its people.

The Constitution of the United States is perhaps the most important aspirational document ever written and codified by humans to govern themselves, particularly in the sense that it leaves very little to doubt about its goals of equality, justice, liberty, and the ability to pursue happiness by the individual as its purpose. That document, the Constitution, is in and of itself our collective aspirational goal, the society we wish we could be as a people. Can we find ways in all that we do, including policing, education, and social welfare, to meet the ideals of that Constitution and all that it stands for? The answer is no, unless we are willing to face our failings, call out our injustices, and drive towards the changes needed to achieve the common goals America was built to achieve.

In August 1963, on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King in his globally noted and socially profound "I Have A Dream"speech, outlined exactly this concept of aspiration. Dr. King used the "dream"concept to describe a world in the future in which the actual articulation of the aspirations of the Constitution could be realized in every person's life regardless of their race, ethnicity, religion, or social class. He did this with a level of eloquent intensity that set the stage for the pursuit of further attainment of the American constitutional aspirations. He knew the aspirations; he knew the intent of the words and the concepts; he knew the philosophies on which they were based and that they were substantial and powerful in terms of what is a human being; he knew the struggles that preceded in the evolution of the United States; and he knew the struggle that he was a part of as a leader of the Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s, which ultimately cost him his own life.

The key point here by Dr. King, and I think the key point of the Constitution itself, goes well beyond any interpretation of the Constitution by a particular sitting Supreme Court, for as we know many of those interpretations from the past would be found today to be appalling, but rather towards the idea of fighting for and driving toward and working toward our national aspirational goals, particularly of equality and justice.

We, the university community broadly and Arizona State University specifically, are, in fact, an aspirational institution and we have, in fact, been woefully inadequate, up to this point, in our own efforts to facilitate the means by which higher aspirational attainment might be achieved for these central goals to our society. This is particularly true as we have grown and diversified as a society.

At ASU, we have taken to heart the notion of designing and building the "New American University,"a university built on the notion of maximum social inclusion, maximum academic excellence, and maximum impact on serving our communities all from the same institution. In the last 15–20 years, Arizona State University students have become representative of the totality of the diversity of our society, and we have altered the functional way in which we operate to help bring about this "New America,"this aspirational attainment of our core values, as stated through the U.S. Constitution. But, even with that, we have been too slow in the concept of redesigning, reconceptualizing, restaffing, re-empowering and enabling the institutions that we, the university more broadly and ASU more specifically, have helped to design, create, staff, and assess. Our institutions are not living up to our hopes. They are not yet as capable as they need to be to reach our collective dream.

Why is it that we still have systems and institutions that can carry out and often justify injustices in the name of the people? Why is it that we have inadequate learning and empowerment opportunities in so many areas of our society? Why do we have police officers so inadequately trained that groups of them can stand by while a person is murdered in a public display of abuse of authority? Why do we not have enough new tools for enhancing the outcomes of our criminal justice system or enough new ideas and solutions about how to address drug addiction and other powerfully negative forces at work in our society? Why have universities become increasingly elitist organizations drawing only from the cream of the cream of our society or from families producing "learning elites"from significant amounts of personal wealth and personal networks? These and many other questions are questions that we can and should not only address but attack and begin to resolve.

But, in spite of all of our efforts, we still have insufficient ideas for social transformation where it might make the most positive difference in terms of accelerating the rate of change and accelerating the rate of enhanced social justice and accelerating the rate of enhanced pursuit of happiness across as much of our society as is possible. We need to do more.

To do more, I am asking our deans and faculty and students of all of our ASU colleges to outline new initiatives, new programs, and new designs that we can initiate with our own resources and then pursue additional partners in creating and deploying new solutions. Our Watts College of Public Service and Community Solutions, our Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law, our School of Social Transformation, our Mary Lou Fulton Teachers College, and other critical ASU academic communities can outline new efforts, new concepts, and new strategies to devise new models for protecting and defending the rights of individuals; new methods, new concepts, and new tools for policing; models for justice and the law that are, in fact, implementable throughout the process and not only after injustices have occurred.

All of our schools and all of our programs, as well as all of our faculty, can engage in this process of new ideas, new designs, and new concepts, while we, as Arizona State University, continue to strive towards our aspirational goal of being the highest quality, highest performing, most egalitarian university operating across the breadth of our society that we possibly can be.

To do this, I am asking that the deans engage in a college-by-college process and that the student leaders also engage in a process for specific new initiatives that we can undertake. I would like to be able to review these aspirational attainment ideas before the opening of the fall semester so that we might get some new energy focused here as faculty and students reassemble.

If, in the interim, there are immediate ideas or immediate actions, get those to me straightaway.

My hope is that we can take a good hard look at our own intellectual underpinnings here and ask ourselves, "are there things that we can do differently or designs that we can produce or teaching and learning that we can alter that can help produce new and better aspirational attainment for the goals of our country?"

I look forward to our moving forward as soon as possible with new efforts. 


We are the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE). We take each of those words and our collective identity very seriously.
We're American. We recall that this nation was born in rebellion to oppressive tyranny and that no oppressor has ever gladly surrendered his position. We're American. We know that nativism has never been our strength; rather we have embraced the world and taken our strength from all the peoples of the world, including those who were already here.
We are a Society. We are a community of shared interests and purposes. Prominent among our shared interests is diversity, equity, and inclusion. We have spoken out forcefully in this regard time and time again including our February 1, 2017 statement on the US President's executive orders on immigration.
We are Engineers. We understand that diversity, equity, and inclusion are essential to the quality of what engineers produce. It's not a "nice to have"—it is essential. Circumstances or actions that impede diversity, equity, and inclusion are inimical to good engineering practice.
We are Educators. Whether we stand in research labs, classrooms, factory floors, or boardrooms, we seek to enlighten others to what we know and what we are learning. We seek to facilitate opportunities for all to learn to the best of their abilities, and to hold ourselves accountable for the quality of our facilitation. We recognize historical and systemic inequities in opportunities and preparation to learn and seek to ensure equitable access and success in education.
The murder of Mr. George Floyd, like that of so many others before him, was a heinous act. But it was not a singular act, or an isolated act. It was part of a pervasive pattern and practice of learned, ingrained, and automatic behaviors that have and will require persistent, consistent, and resistant action to limit and eventually reverse.
We recognize our limitations, but believe that by working together as ASEE members and in collaboration with others, we can contribute to advancing and sustaining the deep and wide change that will be necessary for this nation to begin to achieve the aspirational words that are the preamble to the US Constitution – . . . forming a more perfect Union, establishing Justice, insuring domestic Tranquility, . . . promoting the general Welfare, and securing the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity . . .
Our nation is hurting. For the last few months, we have hurt physically, financially and otherwise from the coronavirus. Now, recent events of racial injustice are hurting us in many ways that words often find inadequate to fully express.

While we acknowledge the painful reality that prejudice and bigotry exist, we stand resolute that they have no place in the Auburn Family. As an institution that values and embraces each individual, we oppose hate and exclusion and acts that promote them.

It was on my heart to reaffirm Auburn’s values. I’m confident that we, together, will work toward change and healing.

To the families, friends and loved ones of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery, we extend our deepest sympathy. Our hearts ache for both the nation we have worked to make more just and equitable and for the city we love and call home. Through our grief for the countless known and unknown victims of systematic racism, we continue to pray that we can use this moment to shine light in our communities. This is not the moment to fall into despair. The world needs our leadership and love. As our forefathers and mothers from the Atlanta Student Movement, the larger Civil Rights Movement, and every struggle for justice in America have shown us, we accomplish great things when we act in solidarity with those who fight for freedom and push America to live up to its promise.

For well over a century, the institutions of the Atlanta University Center have worked to use the light of knowledge to guide the nation out of dark times. The very existence of Clark Atlanta University, Morehouse College, Morehouse School of Medicine, and Spelman College is a form of protest in itself—a recognition that education can illuminate the path to justice and equality and a demand that it be available to the sons and daughters of the diaspora. While we are proud of the leaders in every field our institutions have sent forth into the workforce, we are even prouder of their preparation to carry forward the hard work of making the world better through ideas, innovation, creativity, courage, and determination.

What can we do, individually and as the AUC community? What is the way forward? What are the difficult conversations we need to have and with whom? What are the action plans we need to craft? These are the challenges in the days and weeks ahead. Together, we must continue to thoughtfully engage in the hard work of creating positive change in our communities and across our nation.




I write when I am bothered...I am bothered tonight.
All day, I have watched social media and news with horror as protests borne out of an act of racial violence – the murder of George Floyd - turned to violent demonstrations and even riots. As an African American I fully understand the hurt, anger and utter frustration that drives us to this point. The psychological trauma inflicted on African Americans every time a black life is cut short unnecessarily by a uniformed officer, cannot be understated, nor can it be dismissed. However, we must govern ourselves strategically and with discipline. We are strong, resilient, committed and brilliant. We must organize, plan and use our collective voices to bring about the change we seek.

I am asking you to do three (3) things:

1) Control Your Coins - Consistent, sustained economic pressure. We must stop spending and investing our money into businesses that do not respect and appreciate our buying power. Do not shop in stores where you are followed, ignored or treated rudely. We must never reward ignorance or disrespect. Today we have seen individuals post cruel and racist statements, jokes and pictures. Take note of where those people work. Report them and refuse to support the businesses that employ them.

2) VOTE. NEVER allow an election to occur without casting your VOTE. Educate yourself on the issues that impact our communities and vote out prosecutors and other elected officials who turn a deaf ear on the needs of our people. Attend candidate forums, write letters, attend meetings, volunteer and yes, donate to the campaigns of the candidates you believe in. History has demonstrated that we are a powerful voting block and when we show up!

For many Americans, and for Black Americans in particular, the very soul of the nation seems in peril at the moment. 
The horrific murder of George Floyd, captured in all its public, brutal clarity, serves as a stark reminder of the divergences between the highest ideals of our society as posited by our founders and the stark, 400-year reality for black, brown and native Americans.  It is also a reminder of the fragility of the very lives of black people, including the life of Breonna Taylor, when intertwined with the nation’s criminal justice system. It begs the question: Why is this still happening?
At the same time, we reel from the disproportionate impacts on our community of COVID-19. The higher percentage of death and sickness is overwhelming. The accompanying, record-setting unemployment and economic hardship serve as a painful reminder of just some of the profound and enduring inequities in our society.

There is a great deal of pain. The protests around the country are manifestations of a cumulative national despair.  There is a well-earned weariness here – our community and those who support it have a right to be tired, frustrated and angry.  At the same time, the protests reflect a determination to make positive change, no matter the fatigue.   As our esteemed founder, Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune, teaches us, we must be resilient. We must be energetic in not accepting the status quo, and in not letting it deprive us of our future.  We can define society up.      
And with those protests, we condemn the violence and looting of the few and celebrate the voice of the many. We hold ourselves to a higher standard. We are also watchful of the reaction of authorities and our leaders—who themselves should be held to the same high standard.
We are reminded that great institutions like B-CU, born of trauma, poverty and racism, are very much on the front lines of enabling America to fulfill its highest aims and aspirations. B-CU and other HBCUs serve as both the mirror to and the conscience of the American ideal. The role our institutions assume in serving and healing America—and the role our amazing students will assume as future leaders—has never been more critical or evident.   
At B-CU, we serve students by intentionally exposing them to ideas and experiences that will enable them to discern between what is right and what is easy, and to recognize that with the education they receive, comes a responsibility to a greater good.  B-CU fulfills its mission, in part, by bridging the gap between talent and ability, and access and opportunity.  We serve this nation through harnessing the inextricable linkages – the shared existence – that many of us hold with the communities in which our institutions were born.  For B-CU, that happens to be the former city dump, Hell’s Hole, which was the only land available to our founder. Through determination, faith and a legacy of love she transformed it into our beautiful, enduring university campus.      
In the midst of our collective national trauma, B-CU will continue to live the ideals of its founder.  We will unconditionally love and support our students and one another.  We will do what we have always done – we will rise, support one another and we will affirm the very best of who we are and have always been as a community.   



The unrest following the abhorrent viral video of George Floyd’s murder has led many of us to have real conversations with our children and families about the ugly reality of racism in America; leaving a sense of hopelessness.

How can we tell our girls (and boys) they have the capability to become the next tech CEO and in the same breath detail precautions to take when encountering individuals who are supposed to protect and serve? How can we encourage our girls to show up in society as their authentic selves when we bear witness to countless incidents that illustrate the disregard for Black humanity? How do we tell our girls there are no limits on their dreams when even in the year 2020 racial barriers continue to pervade our daily lives? There is no specific code for how to handle these traumatic incidents when they arise, but we know it starts with being intentional about keeping our children informed, empowered, and hopeful.

At Black Girls CODE, the core of our mission is to empower young women of color between the ages of 7–17 to embrace the current tech marketplace as builders and creators by introducing them to skills in computer programming and technology. Yet the foundation of our work is about so much more than just teaching our girls to write a line of code. The focus of our work is centered on teaching our girls to embrace self-actualization, self-confidence, and self efficacy; we uplift racial justice and equity so that our girls can not only survive but thrive within spaces in the fullness of their unique selves.

We must not let these incidents diminish their sense of pride, but rather use them as fuel to face these obstacles head-on, go further, reach higher and rise. Staying true to the vision of creating brighter futures for our girls, our organization will be here to support our community through this difficult time and for every step on the journey towards healing. We want to express our gratitude to those who have rallied around BGC and have made contributions to ensure we can continue to do meaningful work, especially amid uncertain times.

At times like these we are even more assured that our work is timely and relevant. We will push on together to create space for a better world for our girls, their families, and the beloved community.
Blackcomputerher:
To our community: we are with you, and we are here for you. We are also working on new programming to support you and keep us connected. We'll share more soon, but in the meantime, stay safe and take care of yourselves. 

The Bluefield State College community is united in mourning the tragic and senseless death of George Floyd. Each of us should be deeply saddened by the hate that was expressed by this terrible act. The late Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. said, "We must learn to live together as brothers or we will perish together as fools." Racial discrimination cannot be tolerated in America. Bluefield State is a Historically Black College that serves a population that is diverse, but we are a community where each member must passionately embrace the belief that people of color cannot continue to suffer because of racism. We MUST resolve to love our brother, because hatred can destroy us all. The journey forward can only be made with heartfelt, lifelong, commitment to love, to forgive and to ask for forgiveness, and to listen and learn. We lift up our collective prayers for Mr. Floyd and his family, for the African American community- both locally and nationally- and for each other. The journey will be challenging, but it can also be infinitely rewarding. As Dr. King noted, "You don't have to see the whole staircase, just take the first step." -President, Robin Capehart, Bluefield State College
In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic and our efforts to restore campus operations, our nation has been rocked by acts of violence and ensuing unrest and disruption that have now occurred here in Boston. We are confronted, once again, by the grim reality of systemic racism in our country. The killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and others bring to the forefront these abhorrent elements in our society. At a time when we rely on our police more than ever, we watch painful examples of some officers breaking the public trust in the most egregious ways. These injustices are amplified by the vividly disparate impact of COVID-19 on African Americans in particular, as well as on other ethnic or minority communities.

We grieve for our country and those who are affected by systemic racism, just as we grieve for those afflicted by COVID-19. We will defeat COVID-19 using science and our collective will. We must commit the same will and energy to defeat systemic racism. We must reject the forces in our society that are driving us apart and commit ourselves to creating a just society.

In the current troubled climate, I believe our commitment to restoring our residential campus is made all the more important by the divisions in our country. We are working nonstop to restore campus operations for the fall and will shortly make more detailed announcements about this effort. This is critical because our residential community brings together students from every background to live and learn together, with our faculty, in an atmosphere that promotes mutual understanding and respect. And we are continually working to do this better for all members of the Boston University community. As I write you today, I recall the two months last spring when we witnessed the uniting effect on our community of the expanded Howard Thurman Center for Common Ground, before campus life was abruptly interrupted by the virus. Our return to our residential campus and our personal interactions with one another that are not mediated by a computer screen is essential to the critical work we must undertake to build a campus, a community, and a society that is free from systemic racism.

When we return to Commonwealth Avenue, life on campus will not look or be the same as it was last fall, but we can create a learning community that preserves Boston University as a beacon for the country and world. Such beacons are desperately needed in our country today. I look forward to welcoming you back to campus.
The tragic events unfolding in Minneapolis are yet another reminder that systemic discrimination and violence against African Americans still plague our society.

Since its founding, our Bowie State University community has stood for the inclusion of diverse cultures and voices, and has wholeheartedly condemned acts of violence and incivility. I am deeply troubled by the tragic death of another African American male, George Floyd, in Minneapolis and the rioting that is occurring in response.

We must not let this tragedy go unnoticed. I encourage the BSU community to continue listening to the voices of people of all races that are crying out for change. While I am disheartened by the events in Minneapolis, I know we are stronger when we stand together and use our voices for what we know is right and just for all.



George Floyd's killing was cruel, inhumane, and contemptible. The injustice of violence against black people must stop.

The history of our great university is intertwined with the pursuit of justice. Brandeis was created in response to antisemitism and bigotry. We cannot tolerate discrimination, hatred, or violence against another person based on their race, religion, or background. These values are as important today as they were at our founding.

These are not just words or noble ideas. These are principles that inspire us at Brandeis to educate, to learn, and to act.

With that in mind, I join with Mark Brimhall-Vargas, chief diversity officer, in calling for us to come together, even if virtually. In the message Mark sent on Friday, he mentioned two different events happening this week. The Heller School is hosting a conference, "Co-Constructing Racial Justice through Life and Work."And Mark will host "Coming Together to Face Systemic Racism."I hope you will join me in attending both.

As Brandeisians, not all of our experiences are shared ones. We come from different backgrounds and have different perspectives. But I know that there are some things we have in common. This includes an unwavering commitment to justice, equity, and inclusion. It includes respecting other people, no matter their background.

I hope to see you at one of the events tomorrow or the next day. Let us come together to express our commitment to ending racist violence.
We write to you today as leaders of this university to express first deep sadness, but also anger, regarding the racist incidents that continue to cut short the lives of black people every day.

The sadness comes from knowing that this is not a mere moment for our country. This is historical, lasting and persistent. Structures of power, deep-rooted histories of oppression, as well as prejudice, outright bigotry and hate, directly and personally affect the lives of millions of people in this nation every minute and every hour. Black people continue to live in fear for themselves, their children and their communities, at times in fear of the very systems and structures that are supposed to be in place to ensure safety and justice.

The anger comes from knowing that we have been here before, and in fact have never left. Rallies and protests across the country are raising voices about ongoing injustice in the wake of the killings of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, Breonna Taylor in Louisville, KY, and George Floyd in Minneapolis. As a nation, we might have thought there would be some real change after the deaths of Freddie Gray and Sandra Bland, both who died in police custody in 2015, a year in which some justice organizations reported more than 100 police shootings of unarmed black people in the United States. And this was after our nation mourned and protested the ongoing epidemic of racism with the 2014 deaths of Michael Brown, Eric Garner, Tamir Rice and countless others before and after that year.

All of these deaths "launched national conversations"about anti-black racism. And we know that so many in our community keep asking how many times these conversations have to happen before there is real change. We know there are so many in our community hurting and deeply frustrated, and things are made worse by a pandemic that doesn't allow us to be together and is disproportionately killing black people. We have not been able to gather in some of the ways that usually unite us to build collective understanding, mourn and make calls for action.

We hope that wherever you may be, you seek to effect change in your communities in the ways that make sense for you while preserving your health and safety in this time of COVID-19. And this does not apply only to members of our community residing in the United States. Tragic and traumatic examples of injustice against racial, ethnic and religious minorities persist around the world, resulting in horrific instances of brutality, incarceration and death. Our local and national government leaders need to hear from us as individual constituents in their communities consistently and persistently on issues of racial and ethnic injustice.

As a university, we have tremendous resources in our departments, centers and institutes that can help our community and our society interrogate the persistent and deeply disturbing issues related to race, racism and police violence in America. In the weeks and months to come, we will leverage the expertise of our faculty, staff and students to develop programming, courses and research opportunities designed to advance knowledge and promote essential change in policy and practice in the name of equity and justice.

We are a community that does not condone acts of racism, discrimination or violence. This cannot be accepted as "normal."We must continue to demand equity and justice for all people, inclusive of all identities. And we must continue to care for and support each other, especially in this time when we are apart.
George Floyd was killed last week by someone sworn to protect him – someone sworn to protect all of us and the liberties we enjoy. It was evil and ugly. And as Mr. Floyd begged to be allowed to breathe, other officers stood by and did nothing. 
Over the past week, I've been reflecting, like a lot of Americans. What should we do – and what should I do – in the face of evil? Americans are understandably very angry, and some have chosen to protest. The right to protest is among our most cherished freedoms, and I respect all who do so nonviolently.
Over the last few days, I have met with small groups of UTEP students, faculty, staff and alumni. I talked to them about their experiences at UTEP and in El Paso to learn if there were concerns about racism on our campus, and particularly in our campus police force.
I was pleased that, generally, people feel safe here, and they don't think that there is a problem in the UTEP police force. "El Paso is different,"several told me. Still, many feel like "a minority in a minority"and "sometimes invisible."Not all of our students know where to go or what to do if they have a problem, and many of them had ideas about how to make things better.     
It's up to all of us to ensure our country lives up to the ideals of a free and equal society, and there will be much that we will need to do in the coming months – as individuals and as a campus community. 
To begin with, I will be asking our Student Government Association, our Faculty Senate, and our Staff Council to recommend campus colleagues who will work with our Chief of Police to review our policies, procedures, practices and training so that we continue to build trust between the UTEP Police Department and those whom they are sworn to protect. Good organizations always try to be better.
UTEP has a proud legacy of breaking down barriers, as music professor Engebret Thormodsgaard did in 1956 when he cast 20-year-old Bernice Bell to play the heroine opposite a white man in an opera production staged in Magoffin Auditorium; and as Don Haskins and our men's basketball team did in 1966 at the NCAA national championship, forever changing college athletics in this country. UTEP was the first baccalaureate institution in Texas to desegregate; we have a legacy of creating opportunities for those historically underserved by higher education in America, with a student body that is over 90% minority in a top tier research university. 
UTEP will remain true to our legacy by doing good in the face of evil.

Even as our nation struggles to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to bear witness to the reality that systemic racism and injustice pervade our society. The deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery are but the latest examples of violent and dehumanizing acts of racism across the country. I am heartbroken and outraged by these tragedies, and I know that the CMU community around the world shares my concern for the victims’ families, and for those in our community who are most impacted by these hateful acts. Please know that we see you, we care about you and we are here for you. While I recognize I cannot fully understand the pain, anxiety and fear these events inflict on Black and African Americans, including many in our own community, I know that it is up to each one of us – no matter our background – to confront and dismantle racism and injustice wherever they exist.

At times like this we must reflect on what we can do to make society, including our own community, more just. It would be inadequate to restate our commitment to respect, value, and foster diversity, equity and inclusion across our community. We know we have much work to do to live out these values at Carnegie Mellon. Learning about each other’s lived experiences; engaging with and supporting colleagues; challenging injustice when we witness it; and, especially, actively listening to each other will truly help us build the campus climate we seek.

Uniting in the face of challenging times is the Carnegie Mellon way. Acts of solidarity at The Fence, community discussions and listening sessions have helped us all grieve and heal together. Although we cannot gather in traditional ways, we will be working in the days and weeks ahead to curate virtual opportunities to consider actions we as a community can take to be the change we wish to see in the world. In the meantime, we ask our entire community to come together, with humility, compassion and empathy, to support one another, including those who are feeling especially vulnerable now.

With great respect for you and every member of our community,

Six years later, the words are the same.

I can't breathe.

After all of the mourning and protests, the lawsuits and training, the promises made and lessons learned, nothing, it seems, has changed.

Lying on a Staten Island sidewalk in the summer of 2014, Eric Garner said "I can't breathe"nearly a dozen times as a police officer's arm stayed tight around his throat.

Last Monday in Minneapolis, George Floyd repeated the same phrase—in his case, with an officer's knee pressing into his neck.

The local protests that followed have spread across the country, reaching Cleveland on Saturday. Ours opened peacefully, but devolved soon after marchers reached the Justice Center a few blocks away. Protesters pitched water bottles and spray-painted walls, officers released tear gas canisters, and before long, police cars were engulfed in flames.

Today protests continued in communities nationwide—and even extended to London and Berlin. In Cleveland, meanwhile, officials announced a noon curfew for downtown to allow time for clean-up of streets and stores.

But what about the systemic racism cited so often in recent days? How can a city, a country, "clean up"that?

We cannot—should not—ever try to wipe away the past.

We need to know it. Own it. And commit to forging a better future.

Four months after Eric Garner died in 2014, Tamir Rice was shot and killed by police while playing with a toy gun outside a Cleveland recreation center.

He was 12 years old.

The following year, the city accepted a 110-page settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice. The document required sweeping reforms to address the department's record of excessive force and urgent need to restore community trust.

The monitoring team's most recent report, issued in September, found force incidents fell by nearly a third compared to 2017.

That team, including deputy monitor Ayesha Bell Hardaway of our law school, still found shortcomings, in particular in terms of resources for training and data systems. Nevertheless, the group concluded the department had made "substantial progress."

While the medical examiner ruled Garner's death a homicide, the officer who choked him never faced charges. Nor did the one who killed Tamir. On Friday, Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin was arrested and charged with third-degree murder. He appears in court tomorrow.

Small steps, true. But in a moment of so much anger… and pain… and sorrow, they matter.

In the often-quoted words of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. "…the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."

As an institution of higher learning, we have a profound responsibility to the future. When it comes to this moment, how can we best begin to fulfill it?

This week, we will provide opportunities to engage, and share resources for those who would like support. Tonight, though, we want to remind you of a part of our legacy: The first Commencement address Frederick Douglass ever gave came at Western Reserve College in 1854.

"The relation subsisting between the white and black people of this country is the vital question of the age,"he told some 3,000 in attendance. "In the solution of this question, the scholars of America will have to take an important… part."




As we navigate these unprecedented times, we are now forced to deal with a series of tragic events. The unconscionable deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery were unnecessary incidents that have drawn national and international attention. Many people realize that this can and should be the moment to move America forward — into an era of social and economic justice, equity, and stability. We, as a nation, must do better.

Representing the two oldest Historically Black Colleges and Universities in our nation — Cheyney University of Pennsylvania and Lincoln University of Pennsylvania — we stand together against racial injustice. America's HBCUs are in a unique position to be at the forefront of this effort. Our institutions exist because there was a time when universities did not accept African Americans into the ranks of their student population, so we created our own. Now, more than ever, our vision and our voices must be heard.

We call on our students to focus their energy on bringing constructive change to the society in which we live. We ask them to use the modern technology and resources that previous generations did not have as the means to adapt, to overcome inequities and to change our communities for the better. Most importantly, we want our students to stay safe at all times, whether they decide to express their voices at home or in person at peaceful demonstrations.

We are reminded of the words of two prominent alumni of our storied institutions. They are just as relevant today as when they were first spoken and penned:

"…We do solemnly pledge ourselves to assist by our means any suit brought against the perpetrators of outrages…"

– Octavius V. Catto, Cheyney University, Class of 1858

"O, let my land be a land where Liberty
Is crowned with no false patriotic wreath,
But opportunity is real, and life is free,
Equality is in the air we breathe."

– Langston Hughes, Lincoln University, Class of 1929

We are in challenging times that require unity and a sense of purpose. Cheyney University and Lincoln University stand united in the fight for social justice.

Regrettably, African Americans are continuing to be targeted across our great nation. The Claflin University community calls for prayers for the family of George Floyd and all other victims of reported aggression by law enforcement against African Americans and people of color.
After the protests have ended, America must find ways to heal by restoring "Peace with Justice." The work will be hard, but through transformative education, unity, and a true commitment for a changed nation we can move forward.
Corrective action strategies must reflect immediate tools for corrective systemic and cultural change. Only through transformative education, is it possible for shifts in both behavior and mindsets to occur toward more positive humanistic outcomes.
In essence, a cultural shift must occur throughout all of society, especially police precincts, court systems, and prosecutors. Society can no longer tolerate:
•        Treatment of African Americans as second-class citizens.
•        Hasty and unjustified judgment based on the color of one's skin.
•        Excessive harm and brutality to African Americans by law enforcement officers
•        Education and more effective training of law enforcement officers are needed within training academies, and all systems governing the safety of our nation's citizens. African Americans must cease to be marginalized, brutalized and/or murdered by justice systems based on ethnicity.
The pathways for transformation in thinking and shifts in mindsets against such brutality is at the heart of Claflin University's new Center for Social Justice. Our Center will work across disciplines, communities, and demographics, to be a game changer regionally, nationally, and internationally. Our Center, though its programming, will foster collaborations and greater understanding of social justice issues throughout the region and beyond.

Claflin University, the first historically black college and university in South Carolina, is the place where the lives of young African Americans have been shaped for the future for more than 150 years. As such, we see it as our role and mission to be the place to re-shape systems and faulty mindsets that continue to marginalize and bring harm to these future leaders. We desire to be the catalyst for:
•        Helping justice workers around the nation learn how to embrace diversity.
•        Restoring "Peace with Justice."
•        Reducing violence against African Americans.
Our response to the continued violence against African Americans indicates a need for immediate cultural shifts in how African Americans are treated by reported "peacekeepers" around the nation. While many law enforcement officers are performing their duty with dignity and respect toward the public, there still remain too many others who abuse their roles. African Americans are dying and suffering at the hands of many law enforcement officers due to systemic racism and faulty underlying psycho-cultural assimilated orientations of race. While the current protests highlight this crisis, a real solution involves immediate and systemic change in both the mindset and behaviors of everyone involved in all areas of law enforcement and the criminal justice system, past and present.
The Center for Social Justice will provide a platform for our mission to lead a national movement of change. The following is a list of the Center's upcoming projects and activities that will affirm our leadership in this national movement.
1. Day of Reflection Vigil in memory of George Floyd and other recent victims of reported aggression by law enforcement against African Americans and people of color. This vigil, scheduled for June 19, will be a virtual event given the accelerated numbers of COVID-19 across the U.S., the increased risk of African Americans contracting COVID-19, and the number of people across the U.S. and the world who will join our prayer vigil.
2. Transformative action within the highest levels of government. Claflin University is calling on the U.S Department of Justice to partner with us to change the systemic violence towards African Americans throughout this country.
3. Transformative action with partners around the nation. Claflin University will convene the first National Summit for ending violence against African Americans. The Summit will unveil the infusion of anti-racist training resources to adequately support the training and empowerment of all levels of people involved in law enforcement across the country (developed by Claflin University) to confront both conscious and unconscious marginalizing views of minority groups. Representatives from various law enforcement agencies across the nation; HBCUs; UNCF; NAACP; local, state, and national representatives; and other local and national community groups will participate.
4. Annual training and certification programs will be offered to employees at all levels of law enforcement and the criminal justice system through our Center. The focus will be on cultural competencies, urban/rural policing, emotional intelligence and race relations.
5. The development of a "Peace with Justice Covenantal Statement" to be signed by all law enforcement officers prior to beginning service at their respective agencies.
6. The development of agreed upon actions to be taken by both African Americans and law enforcement in the event, for example, behavior after a traffic stop by law enforcement officers.
7. The development of a "Bill of Rights" for African Americans who feel they are being targeted because of their race which will carry a review by boards governing all areas of law enforcement.
Through these initiatives coordinated through the Center of Social Justice, Claflin University will remain at the forefront in the struggle for social justice, economic empowerment, and political equality.


Over the past several days, Clarkson University has joined the nation in grieving the death of George Floyd. The subsequent protests are more than just a response to an isolated incident. Change is necessary.
Clarkson’s core values call us to work towards addressing deep-rooted issues of racial inequality at the heart of these events. We must do so both locally and nationally through intentional actions and with respect to the dignity of our community members.
To our students, employees and alumni who are hurting, we offer our support and our resources.
For those who want to do something to make a difference,  by using our individual and collective voices participate in our Community Meeting on Thursday, June 4 at 7pm Eastern time
connect to the Clarkson community members below and reach out to your elected officials (https://usa.gov/elected-officials) to share the change you want.
I, like many others, am deeply saddened by recent tragic events nationwide and the deep divisions that still threaten our ability to move ahead as one nation.

Let there be no doubt: Racism, injustice, violence, brutality and hatred, in any form, cannot be tolerated.

Amid the turbulent times of 2020, we find our Clemson family physically apart due to COVID-19. Still, we can and should reach out to those in our family who are hurting or in need.

We also can put into practice our Clemson values: We value the rights of others. We are respectful of each other and our individual differences, beliefs and ideas. We actively listen and communicate. We seek to understand one another’s challenges, and are tolerant and forgiving.  And, we come from diverse backgrounds that make up one inclusive Clemson Family.

Our work is not only in the moment, but it also lies in the daily development of our University community, as we work to ensure that everyone feels welcome and valued as a part of this Clemson Family.

As we continue to prepare our campus for the return of our full community this fall, we must keep working to repair the world every day, step by step, to make Clemson and our world a better place for us all.

We can, and must, do better if we are to build a truly inclusive Clemson community. That work has never been more important than it is right now.

My entire leadership team and I are committed to continued progress in this area. Should anyone have ideas they would like to share with us, I encourage you to reach out to us at UnitedClemson@clemson.edu.


It pains us to see racism grip our nation and cause suffering in Black communities. This must stop.
Code.org stands together with the black community- our employees, partners, teachers, and their students-in the fight against the systemic inequity, racism, and injustice in the United States.

I have been contemplating the role of a university, especially in times of great crisis, this last week of May 2020 when the right words are so hard to come by. At William & Mary, one important role is continually to call ourselves to awareness of our history, in the present. As the great American writer James Baldwin taught us, "not everything that is faced can be changed, but nothing can be changed until it is faced."

None of us can ignore the turmoil, the heartbreak, of the racial divisions in our country — a cascade of grief for Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd has brought it to the fore. The racism and injustice we continue to witness bring grievous hurt to our communities. It comes to us at a moment when so many in this nation and the world are vulnerable, intensifying the loss and weariness of pandemic. We are facing again the legacy of our country's founding, that did not recognize the full humanity of all peoples. African Americans in our communities are asking, in this moment, do you recognize my full humanity? We do. We will face this with you.

A critical role of a university at moments of crisis is to rededicate ourselves to the propositions that sustain a pluralistic democracy. We recognize that we are still far from realizing them for all: fairness, respect for the human dignity of others, evidence-based argument, scientific discovery, the pursuit of opportunity and safety and equal justice under the law.

As a public university in Virginia, dedicated to the perpetuity of democratic institutions, it has never been more important that we commit ourselves to change that advances these values. We must find it within ourselves to look for hope. And as we face unspeakable acts, we must be there to help lift one another's heavy hearts — so we can study together, learn and work together, toward a more humane and free world. The past week's events demonstrate how much farther we have to go.

As we search for paths forward during these uncertain times, the role of a university provides some clarity and William & Mary's core values of belonging, respect and integrity provide direction. The diverse communities and perspectives we convene — to grapple with our imperfections and our legacies of inequality — are our best hope for empowering those who study here to build our future together.
Dear Mines Community,
For the past week, the news has been dominated by the tragic death of George Floyd and the ensuing protests, civil unrest and destruction. It has been difficult to watch and to process—the wrongness of the death, the intense anger and emotion of the protestors and the widely varying responses of our elected leaders.
Events like this and others over the past few years force us to face the uncomfortable reality that racism and bias are prevalent and persistent. They also provide the impetus for us, as individuals and the Mines community, to reflect on who we are, what we stand for and what we should do going forward.
We are a caring community that has embraced and is working toward achieving the aspirations expressed in our strategic plan for diversity, inclusion and access. We naturally feel for victims of racism and bias, we hurt when members of our community are hurt and we have pledged to create a community that supports the education and careers of students, staff and faculty from all backgrounds.
Our Achilles heel is that many of us do not understand with depth the issues at play today. Most of us do not come from backgrounds where we have had to endure racism—either based on the color of our skin or our country of origin. This can make us blind to our biases and unable to see the actions we need to take to support the success of all members of our community. How many of us can imagine being raised with a deep-seated fear of law enforcement personnel or being concerned for our life when going out for a run? That is reality for some members of our community.
In response to current events, we wanted to do something more than just issue a campus note that expresses outrage or rejects persistent and systemic racism and promises a better future. We decided instead to use this opportunity to challenge ourselves as campus leaders and all of you as community members to learn how to be more effective advocates and allies for those who experience racism and to develop a deeper understanding of the law enforcement community.
Our Mines DI&A team will follow up with our plan for the former—they already have a list of resources for you to learn more, ways for us to take meaningful action and opportunities for new campus programming. Our Mines Police Department is taking the lead on the second topic. They will be sending an email telling us a little about themselves, their training and programs and the town hall-style discussion they envision that includes participants from our police department and local law enforcement professionals from surrounding communities.
In the last few months, we have seen how individual and collective action can flatten curves and change outcomes. As we have faced the COVID-19 pandemic, we have become adept at putting aside our own self-interests and acted on behalf of our neighbors and larger society. We have spent hours educating ourselves about a menacing threat and using that information to adjust both our actions and our thinking. We can do the same thing, climbing together, as we progress toward creating the community we aspire to have at Mines.
And, as always, we are interested in your thoughts and suggestions.
Stay well and stay safe, Orediggers,
Paul C. Johnson, President and Professor
Amy Landis, Professor and Presidential Faculty Fellow for Access, Attainment and Diversity
Dan Fox, Vice President of Student Life
Dustin Olson, Chief of Police and Director of Public Safety
Rick Holz, Provost and Professor
Kirsten Volpi, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
As protestors gather in cities around the country to express their outrage over the atrocity of George Floyd's death, and as we grieve other incidents of hate and violence perpetrated against people of color—from Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky to Tony McDade in Florida and Chris Cooper in New York, we are united in our anguish and anger.

To the Black members of our community who are hurting so badly, your friends and colleagues all wish we could ease your pain. We are heartbroken for the families of those who have died at the hands of hate and for those who have endured racist incidents they will never forget. We are heartbroken for those protestors who have come together to be heard and who have been met with violence. And we are heartbroken for the young people around our country who must be watching and reading the news and wondering, "When will it stop? When will it change?"

As President of Colorado State, I affirm that it is not enough to commit to being a university and a community where hate and bias and racism are not tolerated. We are committed to being anti-hate, anti-bias, and anti-racist.

And because I recognize the inadequacy of my words during this painful and uncertain time, I urge all of you to read the powerful statement that the Office of the Vice President for Diversity released this morning. I echo their words, in hope that doing so brings some comfort:

To our Black and African American community members: we see you and we are here for you. Our hearts are with you. Our words and actions are with you.
I am writing in both a personal and an institutional capacity. Like everyone, I have been reflecting on the events of the last week with an increasing sense of anguish at the human suffering we are witnessing and of alarm at the national crisis we are facing in our political system.

Until last Friday, I did not think it was possible for me to forget even for a moment that we are in the midst of an historic pandemic, bringing untold human loss and crossing a numerical threshold of unimaginable proportions. But the horrifying ending of the life of George Floyd, a citizen in the very system of justice intended to protect him, and us, which then, along with other recent tragic deaths, drew back the curtains on centuries of invidious discrimination against African Americans, and others, did that. My hopes for a renewed sense of national purpose to continue the heroic efforts of so many, over so many generations, to change once and for all that terrible course of history have been raised, and then deflated. We are at a point in our history where political leadership is not only absent but also disturbingly confounding of the fundamental norms and values that take years and years of hard and determined work to develop—and yet are always so fragile when pitted against the worst instincts of human nature. My concerns here are not partisan, but basic to our culture.

Like so many others here, I have chosen to dedicate my life to sustaining and building academic institutions, and my beloved Columbia, specifically. There is no question that the expectations of intellectual character we choose to live by in the academic world are extreme, and we cannot reasonably expect them to set the bar for ordinary political deliberations and interactions. But what we are seeing today—which unfortunately included just in the last week an unfounded attack on our research and researchers, as well as on the University itself-is at the opposite end of the spectrum. If this were a single incident, that would be one thing, but in the current way of behaving, these become acts of intimidation and dangerous mischaracterization of expertise, one of the hallmarks of a descent into authoritarianism.

In the face of all this, it is only a start to express empathy and solidarity with those in our community who are experiencing loss and apprehension. But I certainly do so here, on behalf of all of us. Universities are not perfect and we have to accept our share of responsibility for the state of affairs we have today. But we are determined, even more so now, to change and to be better. More than anything we will continue to provide the society and the world with all the knowledge we can preserve and create and with a new generation of citizens and leaders who are prepared to live by, and fight for, the values of respect for reason, the love of ideas, and the wish to use these to care for others. 

We say it often and we don’t say it lightly: one of Concordia’s greatest strengths is our diversity.

As a university with international reach, our thoughts are with Black communities across North America as yet another horrifying incident of racist police brutality exposes the terrible grip that systemic racism continues to wield in our contemporary world.

Before Concordia became the university it is today, events in the late 1960s at one of our founding institutions, Sir George Williams University, changed the discussion about racism in Canada. Our campus has long been known for its accessibility and openness, offering opportunities to individuals and communities who were not finding them elsewhere.

Concordia does not tolerate racism or violence of any sort. The university stands in solidarity with those who combat hatred in any form through peaceful means.

We will continue to promote our values of diversity, equity and respect on campus for all. We must also recognize that we are many voices at the university. We come from profoundly different backgrounds and social positions.

With this reality in mind, two years ago Concordia launched a three-phase consultation to develop a strategy for advancing Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) in all aspects of university life. It happens that right now we’re entering the final stage of that process and will be hosting consultation sessions this month to present our findings. 

This isn’t the time or place to recite the initiatives Concordia has undertaken to address racism. Instead, it is, unfortunately, another occasion to acknowledge that there is much more to do as we pursue our mission to create a more just society and brighter future for all through education.

Finally, we recognize that many members of the university community may need support right now. Concordia has people ready to listen.

    Please visit the International Students Office, Multi-Faith and Spirituality Centre, Health Services and/or Counselling and Psychological Services.
    Students can also call Empower Me at 1-844-741-6389 for 24/7 counselling support over the phone.
    Employees can contact the Employee Assistance Program at 1-800-663-1142 (English) or 1-866-398-9505 (French).

The events of the past week come at an especially trying time. It is customary to say of COVID-19 that we are all in this together. And we are. But the past several days are a stark reminder that the health of society also depends on other forms of collective vigilance.

     Like so many of you, my family and I have been reeling over the events of the past week – events for which words seem inadequate. The images we have seen and the sounds we have heard have horrified us and broken our hearts. We are ashamed of the injustices that are perpetrated in our country, every day, against people of color; and of the reality that 155 years after Cornell was founded to help heal the wounds of a broken nation, that nation is, in many ways, still so badly broken.

    The extraordinary times in which we are living are shining a spotlight on so many issues of equity, and the lack of it: on the ways that rights and opportunity are unevenly distributed across our society, and the worth of our labor and our lives unequally valued. As an academic community built on the bedrock values of diversity, inclusion, and openness, we have an obligation to ensure that the forces of these events and our feelings drive us not backward, but forward. Over these past days, the words that have resonated with me the most, as I have struggled with the question of how our community can best embrace our collective challenge, are those of the Rev. William J. Barber II, spoken to an empty church in Goldsboro, North Carolina, this past Sunday: "We cannot try to hurry up and put the screams and the tears and the hurt back in the bottle, just to get back to some normal that was abnormal in the first place. Hear the screams. Feel the tears. The very people who have been rejected over and over again are the ones who have shown us the possibility of a more perfect nation."

    Words are important. Words matter. But our words – of sympathy, of support, of shared pain – are not enough. While the challenges are enormous, and we cannot fix them on our own, that does not absolve us from taking whatever steps we can to fight against systemic racism and structural inequality. As a community, we can and must act, through our teaching, our research, and our engagement, to stand up for those who are oppressed or marginalized, to educate ourselves and others, and to work to ensure that we – our entire society – do better.

    Here are some of the things that Cornell will do immediately:

    Strengthen Community Involvement in Public Safety

    Cornell's Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) is composed of students, staff and faculty members who advise Cornell University Police on issues of public safety and victims' advocacy. The committee, which last met in April, makes recommendations to improve campus security policies and procedures and reviews issues that affect the overall safety and well-being of Cornell's diverse community. I have asked the PSAC to redouble their efforts to engage our community, with a specific focus on procedures and training in the areas of use of force, de-escalation techniques, and cultural competency.

    Summit with Regional Law Enforcement Agencies

    In addition to the work of the PSAC, the university administration has convened discussions in recent years with representatives of regional law enforcement agencies, including Cornell University Police, the Ithaca Police Department, the Tompkins County Sheriff's Office, and the New York State Police. These conversations have touched on shared interests, with a focus on understanding and sharing best practices around law enforcement interactions with communities of color. We will organize another session as soon as possible and include student, staff and faculty representatives in this important, ongoing conversation.

    Community Conversations on Race and Racism

    Using the community chat framework, the Office of Human Resources will be offering 75-minute Zoom sessions on topics such as institutional racism and the context of the current protests, ways to be an ally to our Black colleagues, and how to engage in proactive and meaningful dialogue around difficult topics such as racism. Details on the programs, and information on how to register, will be sent to all staff and faculty members by Vice President Mary Opperman early next week.

    Campus Community Book Read

    As a campus community, we have a collective responsibility to engage in difficult but critical conversations – to listen genuinely to, and learn from, one another. To help bring focus to these conversations, I invite all of you to participate in a Community Book Read of "How to Be an Antiracist," by National Book Award winner Ibram X. Kendi. We will soon provide all students, faculty, and staff with information about how to access an electronic copy of the book, along with a schedule of virtual discussions which will take place over the summer. I hope you will choose to read the book and to join in the conversation.

    Dialogue with Local Community Leaders

    I will be meeting next week with a diverse group of local elected, nonprofit, business, and faith community leaders to review the events of the last few weeks and consider how we might advance town-gown initiatives to further support the needs of our friends and neighbors.

    These plans are in addition to the ongoing work of the Belonging at Cornell framework that emerged from our diversity and inclusion initiatives, many of which were proposed by the President's Task Force on Campus Climate and/or the Provost's Task Force to Enhance Faculty Diversity. More than three-quarters of the goals laid out by the Task Force in 2018 have now been achieved, including the creation of a mandatory Intergroup Dialogue Project experience for all new undergraduates, an improved bias reporting process, implicit bias training for all faculty search committees, and increased support from the provost for faculty hires that advance diversity.

    All of this work will continue, but so much more needs to be done, at Cornell and beyond. I want to close by echoing the words of the Rev. Barber, in saying that there will be no return to "normal" from where we are right now. We are in a time of profound societal change – change that we, as a community and a society, have the power to influence and to shape. We can, and we will, rise to this challenge. Our own consciences demand it, as do our values as a community, and our ethos as Cornellians.
The amount of pain and suffering we are witnessing and feeling is only a snapshot of a broader social reality. We, and everyone before us, have had a role in arriving at where we are today. As such, it is of paramount importance to step up and take a stance. It is our responsibility and a moral imperative to not stand by and simply witness the events around us. We must collectively find our voice and reject racism and inequality. Silence perpetuates, doubt reinforces, and rationalization of incident after incident only compounds the pain so many in our society continue to endure.
While CRA has a long history of celebrating, promoting, and advocating for inclusivity, we cannot be satisfied with continuing the status quo. We will continue to actively stand against discrimination and hatred. We will find new ways to use our voice in Washington to advocate for policies that address the inequities that exist in our field. We will amplify the efforts of our membership organizations wherever we can to help them improve the spaces they occupy and create an environment that is more welcoming, just, and equitable to all. Only together can we begin to right the long history of wrongs that have led us to this place and time.

We start with acknowledging the issues by talking to those around us and explicitly stating that we stand with them when they stand against discrimination and hatred.
We know that racism:
•        Is systemic and institutionalized, was intentionally designed, and established well before the foundation of our nation.
•        Continues to oppress people of color around the world – denying basic human rights, denying opportunity, and even more tragically denying many of their very lives.
•        Is learned behavior that may be unlearned through education, compassion, empathy, and action.
•        Drives a wedge between communities, and in doing so limits the enviable quest for a society steeped in respect.
•        The privileged benefit from its existence and must be willing to sacrifice to overcome it.
•        Lives in our homes, schools, workplaces, parks, churches, stores, amusement parks, government, law enforcement – it lives in us all to varying degrees.
To stand against it, we:
•        Acknowledge the existence of racism within our communities and commit to defeating it.
•        Call out and reject rationalization of incidents and distortion of information.
•        Educate ourselves and those around us to be better equipped to address racism in its many forms.
•        Stand up against the status quo by using our voice and agency.
•        Commit to systemic change in laws, policies, procedures, etc.
•        Dedicate all necessary resources to create lasting change.

We stand in solidarity against racism and injustice. #BlackLivesMatter #CSforALL:  As CSforALL, we acknowledge that current systems are inherently flawed, biased, and unequal. Today, in solidarity with the fight against systematic racism and white supremacy, we say this with increased emphasis. CURRENT SYSTEMS ARE INHERENTLY FLAWED, BIASED, AND UNEQUAL.

We extend our support to ALL who are actively working to identify, change, repair, and replace the systems that cultivate inequity.

Educational equity can never exist in communities where life and liberty are not fundamental rights.

#BLACKLIVESMATTER 




The tragedy of George Floyd's death in Minneapolis is heartbreaking, yet all too familiar. From Trayvon Martin to Eric Garner to Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor, as well as earlier this week in Central Park, we have seen too many deaths and incidents of harassment perpetrated against the African American community. Racism and its deadly consequences are rooted in United States history. Slavery and its legacy live on, and these incidents make all too real the impact of this history.

In the past few weeks, we have witnessed the jarring violence of racism in images in the news and social media. Even in such unsettling times, these events are still occurring and prove that our country is still not immune to racism and the hatred it brings. These events cause grief, sadness, anger and frustration at our inability to conquer racism and protect our loved ones and our communities.

In our grief, let us pledge to work for change, to seek reform and to hold each other accountable for taking a stand against injustice. Let us work to become instruments of peace. As Dr. Reverend Martin Luther King once said, “Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate; only love can do that." In these times of darkness, let us protect and care for one another. The DePaul University community will stand together in solidarity against racism and hate.

At DePaul we are not indifferent when we see that the dignity of entire communities is not respected; whether it be through violent conflict, subtle discrimination, overt negligence of rights, or words and actions of hatred. These facts continue to generate anxiety and suffering, driving communities apart and putting peace, development and democracy under mounting pressure. We are DePaul, a united diverse community. Following the inspiration of St. Vincent de Paul, we promote, respect and protect the dignity of all.

For those who are struggling with recent events, I want to remind community members that University Counseling Services and the Religious Diversity and Pastoral Care offices are sources of support for those who seek assistance in these stressful times. 

We in the Drexel community are disheartened, disturbed and enraged by the pervasiveness of racism and violence against African Americans — most recently, George Floyd's senseless death in Minneapolis police custody, which prompted the demonstrations in Philadelphia and every other major city.

The tragedy of George Floyd's death, and the recent killings of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky, are just the latest examples of our nation's abject failure to address the root causes of inequality. At a time when the African American community is bearing a disproportionately heavy burden from the COVID-19 pandemic, this unrelenting racial violence against the black community exacts a tremendous physical and emotional toll.

We are living in what the American Psychological Association has described as a "racism pandemic" that exacts a heavy emotional toll. We understand that black individuals carry an additional burden of fear and anxiety, simply by nature of the color of their skin. As the APA states, "If you're black in America — and especially if you are a black male – it's not safe to go birding in Central Park, to meet friends at a Philadelphia Starbucks, to pick up trash in front of your own home in Colorado or to go shopping almost anywhere."

We are painfully aware that our campus community is suffering, and that anger and fear are dominating the lives of many of our students, faculty, professional staff and alumni. Many students in Philadelphia are on the front lines of peaceful protest in this city, and students who are home in other parts of the country are doing the same. They are rightly shocked when they are met with resistance. We are proud of their activism and courage, and we support their actions.

At times like this, it is imperative that we harness the values of our campus community to insist on change wherever we are, change in our country and change on our campus. As a university community, we can strive for an extra measure of compassion and understanding as we move forward to action. We can take the time to listen to one another, to have hard conversations about racism, to confront uncomfortable truths about ideologies of white supremacy, and to use what we learn to create an anti-racist campus free from intolerance and hatred. These dialogues are a first step to create a more equitable community as an ongoing aspiration for our University.

On Friday, June 5, at 12:30 p.m., we are opening up a space for dialogue about racism and the difficult path forward to become active allies in the fight against racism. We hope you will join this dialogue and let us know your plan to attend this inaugural virtual conversation by responding at this online link.

We call on all members of the Drexel community to insist on a more just and equitable future, and to speak out in peaceful but defiant resistance to the racial injustice endured by the African American community. We stand with the Drexel community — our students, faculty, professional staff, trustees and alumni – in calling for an end to the racism and discrimination in our country.

We hope you will join this dialogue on Friday and for future conversations, and we urge you to stay safe.
This week, as the United States passed the grim milestone of 100,000 lives lost to the coronavirus, the horrifying death of George Floyd has drawn national attention to fundamental and systematic disparities of justice in our nation. The events in Minneapolis have occurred on the heels of the murder of Ahmaud Arbery, the shooting of Breonna Taylor and in the context of the disproportionate impacts of COVID-19 on communities of color, including here in Durham. For many people at Duke and elsewhere, the pain, trauma and sense of hopelessness is overwhelming.

Every day, throughout our country, African American and other marginalized communities have their safety and dignity threatened—in their places of work, in public spaces, and in their homes and neighborhoods. This ongoing history of structural and sustained racism is a fundamental and deeply distressing injustice, here as elsewhere.

But we as a university must do more than recognize and grieve these circumstances; we must work together to change them.  In our Duke statement of values, we affirm our commitment to trust, respect, and inclusion. In that spirit, Duke University will continue the work of addressing generations of racism and injustice, of seeking ways to approach one another with respect, and of building communities that are truly safe, supportive, and inclusive for all.

My very best wishes to the entire Duke family in this troubling time.
The ECEP leadership team acknowledges that our work to broaden participation in computing will only have its full desired impact if we actively confront the systemic racism that has led to the current state of affairs in this country:
As advocates for equity in CS, we must, in both words and action, challenge the deeply ingrained structural racism permeating our culture and our educational systems. Real and lasting change will require ALL of us to dismantle structural inequities by engaging as allies and advocates for change.



As Emory leaders speak out against racist violence, the community will come together Friday, June 5, to unite for an anti-racist world.

A university-wide online solidarity vigil is set for 4 p.m. Friday. Earlier in the day, the Emory medicine community will hold "White Coats for Black Lives" events on the Emory Quadrangle and at six hospitals. Masks and social distancing will be mandatory.

"All of us are grappling with the violent deaths of Georgia resident Ahmaud Arbery, Minneapolis citizen George Floyd, Kentucky citizen Breonna Taylor, and too many other instances of racism and violence against people of color," Emory President Claire E. Sterk said in a message sent to the Emory community May 30. "These senseless acts strike at the heart of Emory's commitment to upholding equity, diversity and inclusion. Now, more than ever, we must stand together against intolerance and racism." 

Sterk will speak at Friday's online solidarity vigil, which is hosted by the Office of Spiritual and Religious Life along with Campus Life. Other speakers include Carol Henderson, vice provost for diversity and inclusion and chief diversity officer; LaNita Campbell, director of the Office for Racial and Cultural Engagement; the Rev. Greg McGonigle, university chaplain and dean of religious life; and Olivia Johnson, a student in the Laney Graduate School.

The event will also include a reading from Jericho Brown, Emory's Winship Distinguished Research Professor in Creative Writing, who recently won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry. Attendees should register to attend and are encouraged to light a candle for those who have died.

 "The Emory community stands for justice in all aspects of our mission, and when confronted with hatred and prejudice, we must speak out," Sterk emphasized in her message. "Emory respects the dignity and value of all human beings, and our community will continue to engage in conversations that matter, no matter how difficult the dialogue, so that together, we might seek a more just and equitable world for all."

Emory President-elect Gregory L. Fenves, who takes the helm of the university Aug. 1, sent a message to the community June 2 reflecting on the tragedies of the past weeks and the protests in Atlanta and across the nation.

"The murder of George Floyd, under the knee of a police officer, horrified me as a human being and as an American," Fenves said. "Mr. Floyd's death, coming in the wake of so many other killings of African American citizens — including Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia — has unleashed anger and outrage about systemic racism that has not been addressed more than 60 years after the Civil Rights Movement started. We are still fighting the same battles and people have had enough — of racist violence, of organized hatred and of longstanding social inequities." 

But amid the despair, the Emory community has the ability to lead change "through education, research, health care and creative expression, but also by leading with your hearts," he continued, noting that he learned from his father that "it is our duty to speak up — to not be silent — so that injustice could be rooted out and overcome. 

"It is my hope, then, that the tragedy of George Floyd's murder and those before him will awaken us all to our deepest flaws and help us heal, change and create a better future, together," Fenves said.

Interim Provost Jan Love called on the Emory community to remember that "education is only one tool, but it is powerful" and to note that the university's motto — "the wise heart seeks knowledge" — "deliberately combines head and heart."

"Righteous rage is a healthy immediate emotion in response to the outrageous violence we are witnessing perpetrated against black people," Love said in June 3 message to the Emory community. "If you want to be part of meaningful, productive and life-giving change, definitely get mad, but then get busy. We all have work to do. Let's do it together."
White Coats for Black Lives

The Emory School of Medicine community will gather in seven locations earlier on Friday for "White Coats for Black Lives" events. Participants will kneel for 8 minutes and 46 seconds in remembrance of George Floyd, as well as countless other victims of racist violence. 

"Our aspirations for a racism-free world seem so very, very far away. For that, we should all be sad, angry, and at the same time energized to do all that we can to serve as forces of change to support each other, regardless of race, and to confront both racism and the racists who would seek to divide and damage," Emory Healthcare CEO Jonathan S. Lewin said in May 30 message. 

The events take place at 1 p.m. and all are welcome to attend; masks and social distancing will be mandatory. Locations include the following: 

    School of Medicine and Clifton Campus (EUH): Emory Quadrangle
    Emory University Hospital Midtown: Orr Building Courtyard
    Emory Saint Joseph's Hospital: Meditation Garden
    Emory Johns Creek Hospital: Classrooms A & B, Lower Level
    Emory Decatur Hospital: Front Plaza by the flagpole
    Emory Hillandale Hospital: Main Entrance
    Grady Memorial Hospital: Main Entrance on the corner of Jesse Hill and Gilmer Street





Our world is in pain, from ills both medically treatable and socially teachable. Florida Tech is proud to have one of the most diverse student populations of any U.S. university. Justice and equality are core principles that we value here, and education sheds light where there otherwise was darkness. I look forward to the conversations we will have as a community of learners when students arrive for fall classes. Until then, I hope that all of you stay safe and healthy, open your minds to ideas that make you uncomfortable, and always treat your fellow humans with dignity and respect.




We are going to keep this statement brief. Words are failing all of us in the wake of George Floyd's murder. When leaders reach for words like outrage, horror, or despair, they only do more damage when they are not matched by action. As James Baldwin once famously said, "I can't believe what you say, because I see what you do."

So, no words without action. We are determined to keep George Mason University true to its motto, to be a place of "freedom and learning."We will take whatever steps are necessary to ensure every member of Mason Nation, and every visitor to our campuses, is safe: physically safe, emotionally safe, culturally safe, and intellectually safe, to become who they want to be.

To do that, today we directed the senior leadership of Mason to conduct a thorough review of our academic, research, public service, student service, campus law enforcement, and alumni offerings that contribute to social justice, racial equity, and peaceful conflict resolution. And we have directed them also to root out areas where we have fallen short of our intentions, through either conscious or unconscious bias.

Where we have services and expertise to offer a hurting, grieving community, we will step up – to the Mason community, to northern Virginia, to the national capital region, and beyond. We simply will not allow this moment to divert Mason from the long-standing pursuit of access to excellence, which is our ultimate tool to fight the perpetuation of racism.

And where we learn we have failed the diverse community we so proudly serve, we will direct necessary resources to fill the void. The COVID-19 pandemic has put us under unprecedented financial duress, but nothing is more strategically or morally vital to our future than truly living up to our mission to be an "inclusive academic community committed to creating a more just, free, and prosperous world."

In the weeks and months ahead, we will have more to say about what we have to offer to advance social justice and healing, and about what changes we will make to improve how Mason will better serve the community and the nation as a whole. We invite you to stay tuned and be prepared to act with us.

Our nation is fighting two pandemics – the COVID-19 virus, and the pandemic of racism in America. George Mason University will address both with the same vigor and sense of urgency.
Like everyone in our community, I write to you today feeling sad and angry about the brutal killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor, along with the racist incident in Central Park. 

I cannot begin to fathom the hurt GW’s Black students, faculty and staff may be feeling. My heart goes out to all who are suffering and may not feel safe. 

Please know that we continue to offer support and resources and are planning some online community events that are referenced in this message from Vice Provost Caroline Laguerre-Brown and the Office of Diversity, Equity and Community Engagement.

While I wish we had the opportunity to host these conversations and support one another on campus, I know that we remain a strong community, and we will find ways to connect until our planned return to campus this fall. I look forward to working together—harnessing the power of the community that comprises this great institution—to address racism and injustice on our campus and in our society.
Like many of you, I have struggled to process the senseless, heartbreaking killing of George Floyd by a police officer in Minneapolis. It is hard not to see a pattern of violence against black people when this tragic death comes on the heels of Ahmaud Arbery’s shooting right here in Georgia, Breonna Taylor’s in Kentucky, and so many others before them across our country. I acknowledge the pain many members of our community are feeling, and I stand in solidarity with our African American brothers and sisters and all people of goodwill, as we find a path forward.

There is much soul-searching we need to do as a society. We all share in the responsibility to deliver on our foundational belief that all people are created equal and are endowed with the same fundamental rights. While we demand change from those with the power to enact it, we must also ask what each of us can do to make good on that promise. And that includes all of us at Georgia Tech.

For the past few months, we have worked together on a new vision of inclusion, public service, and impact. That vision requires that we open the doors of opportunity to more people of underrepresented backgrounds. That we reduce barriers of access that still persist and that have nothing to do with talent. That we reject the status quo and do better. That we listen to and work with our students to create a more inclusive environment where people of all backgrounds can learn and grow. That we educate students who can think critically about the society we live in and can lead us to a better place.

As scholars and researchers, we need to ask ourselves how the science and technology we advance and the theories and solutions we propose help all of us live better lives. As alumni and leaders in business and society, we need to hold ourselves to a higher standard of equal opportunity, inclusivity, and impact.

Last September, we had the privilege to meet, listen to, and honor the first four African American students in the Institute’s history. That day helped me better appreciate our long struggle to become more just and inclusive — and how, by being more just and inclusive, we have become much stronger. Today, we must reflect on how much further we have to go.

I encourage all of us at Georgia Tech to be true to our motto of Progress and Service, to deliver on our mission to develop leaders who advance technology and improve the human condition. Those aren’t just words on a page. We have a responsibility to our campus community, to our local community, and to our nation to help change our world for the better. We have a responsibility to empower and include more people, backgrounds, and perspectives in the process.
The senseless killings of Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd have brought forward understandable pain and anger about racism and violence against black Americans. There is no place for racism and violence in our society or at Georgia State.

As a society and a nation, we must be better. The racism and violence that plague our society must stop, and the healing must begin.

Atlanta‘s many decades of peaceful protest and advocacy for social justice have resulted in real and positive change in our society. Georgia State is an example of that change. Racial exclusion was replaced with inclusion, and racism was replaced with black students excelling as academic and community leaders. We’re on the right track, and through continued hard work and sustained commitment we will together help bring an end to the pain and injustice that ail our society.

Now, I ask each and every member of the Georgia State community to stand in solidarity in rejecting racism and violence and to commit to building a better future where opportunity is real and just.


The current state of affairs in our nation today saddens and
enrages me.  Equal justice under the law
is a cornerstone of liberty, but this was not the case with Mr. George
Floyd.  He was murdered by a white
Minneapolis policeman who put his knee on Mr. Floyd's neck until he died.  The policeman in question and those who stood around and watched this crime being committed have now been arrested, but
should have been arrested immediately. 
It is my hope that they will all be prosecuted to the fullest extent of
the law. 
As president of Hampton University and one who witnessed and
participated in the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950's and 1960's, I am
pleased to see those who have initiated peaceful protests expressing their
concerns about police brutality, particularly towards African Americans.  During the late 1950's and 1960's, I participated
in marches and other peaceful protests that were led by Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr.  I was also the vice-president of a statewide student Civil Rights organization. 
My father was a building contractor and Civil Rights
leader.  Therefore, our household was one of those homes that was a meeting place for the local organizations.  It also served as a rest stop for out of town
travelers who could not use public accommodations because of the racism of the
time.  For those travelers, most of these
visits occurred on the weekends and might include a meal, a glass of tea or
lemonade, a nap on the living room sofa, or an overnight stay.  Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. visited several
times although I do not recall him spending the night.  His brother Rev. A. D. King was a frequent
visitor and overnight guest.  Their
visits always included interesting conversations.  I shall forever be indebted to my father for
allowing me to sit in on some of those meetings.  He gave me permission to be present with the
proviso that I could not ask a question, venture an opinion, or otherwise
speak.  As he would say, "You are to
listen and learn."
In these meetings, there were conversations about successes,
failures, problems, promises, and plans for progress in the Civil Rights
Movement.  Some of the attendees urged
the abandonment of peaceful demonstrations and encouraged violent responses
that matched the batons, bullets, hoses, and dogs used by police against
us.  Dr. King spoke out strongly against
the use of these tactics.  He felt that
it would hurt our cause, and he was proven right.  In that same vein, I think that our cause is
hurt today when we focus more on retaliation and less on seeking police reform
and justice.
While peaceful protestors rally to make their voices heard,
the violence, looting, and destruction of property are not the solution. These
acts hinder the cause of justice that so many are seeking.  Peaceful demonstration is a part of African
American history, but engaging in the above-mentioned acts hurts our cause. To
be sure, there will be criticism for those of us who believe in peaceful
protest to achieve desired goals and objectives.

 

I do not have all of the answers, but three specific
thoughts come to mind.   First, now is
the time for us to again come together in our homes and churches to have
conversations about how we can move forward as a people and as a nation to end
police brutality against African Americans. Secondly, every municipality in the
country should establish a colloquium board to facilitate dialogue between
representatives of the police and the African American community to include
ministers, educators, organizational leaders, and other citizens of
good-will.  Thirdly, every state and
local police academy as well as other providers of law enforcement officers
should establish a mandatory class on policing in the African American
community.

 

While I cannot claim to know all of the answers to these
problems nor the timeline for resolution, I do know that nothing can be
accomplished unless we work together for the betterment of ourselves, our
communities, and our nation. Until this happens, justice will not served.  All of us must understand the immorality of
racism as we support the victims of racial discrimination.





The last several months have been disorienting for all of us. COVID-19 has profoundly disrupted the lives of people worldwide. It has caused more than 365,000 deaths around the globe and more than 100,000 in the United States alone. Forty million Americans have lost their jobs, and countless others live in fear of both the virus and its economic consequences.

In the midst of this incomprehensible loss, our nation has once again been shocked by the senseless killing of yet another black person—George Floyd—at the hands of those charged with protecting us. Cities are erupting. Our nation is deeply divided. Leaders who should be bringing us together seem incapable of doing so.

I cannot help but think back to 1968, the spring of my junior year in high school. First, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, then Bobby Kennedy. Riots broke out in nearby Detroit, as they did across the country. Then, like now, our nation was hugely polarized, and we desperately struggled to find common ground that might unite us. 

At the time, hope was in short supply. It seemed difficult to imagine how we would move forward, but we did. As I think about the challenges that we face today, I return again and again to what I believe:

I believe in the goodness of the people of this country—and in their resilience.

I believe that all of us, liberal and conservative, Democrat and Republican, whatever our race or ethnicity, want a better life for our children.

I believe that America should be a beacon of light to the rest of the world.

I believe that our strength as a nation is due in no small measure to our tradition of welcoming those who come to our shores in search of freedom and opportunity, individuals who repay us multiple times over through their hard work, creativity, and devotion to their new home. 

I believe in the American Dream.

I believe in the Constitution, the separation of powers, the First Amendment—especially the right to a free and independent press that holds those in power accountable, and to a free and independent judiciary.

I believe in the 14th Amendment’s guarantee of equal protection of the laws—for everyone, not just for those who look like me.

I believe that no person is above the law regardless of the office they hold or the uniform they wear. Those who break the law must be held accountable.

I believe that one measure of the justness of a society is how it treats its most vulnerable members.

I believe we must provide opportunity to those who may not encounter it on their own so that they may achieve their full potential.

I believe in the power of knowledge and ideas to change the world, of science and medicine to defeat disease, of the arts and humanities to illuminate the human condition.

This is just some of what I believe. I hope you will pause during these troubled times to ask what you believe. Even more importantly, I hope you will find the strength and determination to act on your beliefs—to repair and perfect this imperfect world. Those of us privileged to work or study at a place like this bear special responsibilities. As Luke teaches us, from those to whom much is given, much is expected.


Recent months have cast a long shadow as the pandemic continues its deadly toll on the nation ravaging Black, Brown and Native American communities in particular.   And in the midst of such anguish, the images of Black Americans treated without humanity and – in some cases – brutalized in the last moments of their earthly lives' triggers waves of emotion including staggering grief and righteous anger.   

This constant attack on the Black experience must end.

I am the proud father of two precocious teenagers.  Like many parents we have very purposely had "The Talk"– the unwelcome but necessary conversation about how to prepare for engagement with law enforcement. Watching these modern-day examples of social injustice and unrest in the presence of my 15-year-old son has brought up some difficult conversations. He reminded me of a time when we were heading to campus and were pulled over. I personally don't recall all the details of that stop. However, my son vividly remembers the anger he felt as a result of the interaction. Upon seeing the news out of Minneapolis, he turned to me and asked, "Dad, should I just fall to the ground if a cop approaches me?"Praying for the right words to say, I told him that he should remain calm and try to express himself to the best of his ability. Yet, even after struggling through that conversation, the myriad names of innocent Black lives taken through lethal force  – young and old, men and women –  testify to the insufficiency of that advice. 

This moment of compounding crises leaves little doubt that the daily experience of so many in our community remain marked by heightened vulnerability and a likelihood to encounter deadly force at the hands of misguided individuals or those whose bigoted views betray the oaths they swore to protect and serve.  

Howard University emerged from the ashes of the American Civil War, a conflict that raised but hardly resolved the racial divide in this nation.  Firmly rooted in a promise that offered the transformative power of education to all, Howard has consistently taught that the highest use of knowledge gained at the Mecca is demonstrated in service above self; focused on addressing systematic injustices and entrenched interests antagonistic to our enjoyment of life and liberty.  Our scholars have enlightened, our physicians have healed, our lawyers have advocated, our activists have agitated, our entrepreneurs have built, our counselors have comforted, and our artists have enriched even life itself.

Our nation would be a shadow of itself and remain as imperfect as it was at its inception without the contributions of Howard University and all it stands for. 

In the context of current events there must always be accountability for all found responsible through a fair and thorough investigation so that justice is served. Yet even as we see individual perpetrators on our screens, we must remain mindful that the distorted worldviews and ugly biases have too often been codified into inequitable or predatory systems are equally culpable.  The book of Ephesians reminds us "For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places."

We were born for such a time as this. And I am convinced that institutions like Howard University are destined to continue to build, mold and train the leaders who will help bring needed change to the structures of our society.

No pandemic, no declining economy, no period of prosperity, and no cure for every medical ailment will undo or hide the realities of the Black experience. We must bring consistency to that struggle and focus our intellect and passion daily to prepare for the hard work that must be done to confront evil and systematic oppression. 

As students: remain vigilant about your studies. You are matriculating through Howard University for a purpose that is greater than yourselves. You are the hope of our ancestors and despite the new challenges that will come our way, each day that you remain resolved to focus on your destiny is a day that brings us closer to resolution to many of our world's dilemmas.

As faculty: continue to focus our energies and concern on our students so that they would be nurtured, thrive and excel. We all are intricately woven into the fabric of the Howard University legacy.  Keep researching, writing, and speaking out to craft solutions to the contemporary challenges we face.  We must be diligent in our work and conversations with students to hear and walk with them through these trying times. 

Let's not forget that we are all living these experiences in our daily lives outside of Howard. It is everywhere that we are. Let's first start by not looking past each other wherever we may be and work on actively loving each other. 

In this moment it is necessary to grieve over another life taken unnecessarily and those who loved him who are now broken and left behind to mourn.  It's okay to be angry. It's okay to be sad. It's okay to feel numb. Stay there as long as you need to. I encourage you to take those feelings and channel them into something durable. Write about it. Sing about it. Participate in the electoral process and vote about it. 

We must remember the names of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Atatiana Jefferson, Breonna Taylor and the countless other lives gone too soon.  

We can honor their memories through a life of purpose in confronting and correcting those skewed systems until they respect the humanity and inherent dignity in each of us.

You have noticed that we haven’t posted much lately. As Black Women, we are taking time away from social media for self-care and processing these events individually.
We hope that you are too doing what you can to protect your peace.
{Self-care resources in Bio}

The IEEE Computer Society is, and remains, strongly committed to equity, diversity, and inclusion and we see no place for hatred and discrimination in our communities. Equity, diversity, and inclusion are central to the goals of the Computer Society and all of our activities. We are proactively supporting diversity and inclusion with the creation of a new taskforce this year that will address ways the Computer Society can improve its mission to better serve those most under-represented in our community. However, we know there is more we can do to support these ideals of equity, diversity, and inclusion.

We are ready to listen. Please send your suggestions to inclusion@computer.org and your comments will be shared with Computer Society leadership and the Computer Society Diversity & Inclusion Task Force.



History teaches us that silence is acceptance. This isn't the time to be quiet. At #icsme2020, we strive to build a safe, diverse and inclusive environment. We support and uplift the Black voices in our community. Today—and always—we stand in solidarity with the Black community.

As the events following the tragic death of George Floyd in Minneapolis have created unrest in our city, state, and nation, I want to reaffirm our unwavering support of our students, faculty, staff, alumni, and Bronzeville neighbors of African descent. Simply put, the university unequivocally condemns discrimination and violence against all African Americans within our community and across the country. 

The pain and outrage that many of us feel at this time is palpable. I reaffirm this university's ongoing and strong commitment against racism of all kinds. Our university is dedicated to peacefully working with our community to reject fear, violence, and injustice and to contribute to positive change in Chicago and in our nation. 

Our university was founded to bridge inequity in education and opportunity—and that informs every aspect of who we are as a university. As outlined in our Statement on Community, Inclusion, and Diversity, "We embrace the contributions that differences offer."

Please stay safe during this difficult time.
****video message***
Like many of you, I have followed the events in Minneapolis and the demonstrations in cities around the nation in response to the tragic death of George Floyd with a mixture of deep sadness, frustration, anger and disappointment. My heart goes out to all those feeling pain and anguish over this senseless death and to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives in the protests of recent days or who have suffered loss and damage in other ways. It is truly difficult to comprehend this tragedy and to find the right words to console the many people, especially members of the African-American community, who are hurting right now and hoping that justice will ultimately be served.  

To echo IU Vice President James Wimbush, who eloquently expressed his sadness and great concern earlier today on the reaction, in his home city of Indianapolis, to George Floyd’s death, the list is far too long of those black and brown individuals who have been subjected to disturbing violence in recent years. This list underscores the racism, bigotry, intolerance and hatred that too many members of our society, especially people of color, are forced to confront on a daily basis. It also draws our attention to the deeply disturbing growth in recent years here and around the world in the number of hate groups, as well as the immensely concerning increase in the number of acts of hatred and violence against minorities.

Here at IU, students of color now make up more than a quarter of the university’s total enrollment. Hence what is happening in Minneapolis and other cities around the nation serves as a powerful reminder that we have a special obligation to work to ensure that our campus communities are places where differences of all kinds, whether of race, ethnicity or belief, are respected, valued and protected, and where hatred, bigotry and intolerance will be powerfully condemned.

We are all members of an educational community, and as such, we must always, as part of the very core of what we do, face the challenges inherent in understanding and evaluating the ideas, assertions and arguments that come from other perspectives, other traditions, other disciplines and other beliefs, as we pursue our fundamental mission of searching for knowledge and truth. At the same time, we cannot afford to ignore the lessons drawn from the serious and informed study of present-day racism and intolerance and their deep connections with centuries-old traditions of suspicion and hatred. Much important scholarship is taking place at IU in these areas, and that scholarship has never been more important.

We must continue to insist that there is absolutely no room at IU for discrimination or harassment based on anyone’s actual or perceived race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin or political beliefs. We see our diversity as one of our cardinal virtues. We are extremely proud of our students of color and their achievements – students who are such a vital part of the cultural and historical fabric of our institution, but we will have failed them if we cannot provide to them campus environments where they feel safe, supported and respected. 

In the days and months ahead, we must strongly reaffirm Indiana University’s fundamental commitment to diversity and equity. We must condemn those who seek to divide us based on race, ethnicity, national origin and other areas. We must join together as a strong and vigorous educational community to be inclusive, supportive and welcoming to all. And we must always stand up for what is good and right.

#BlackLivesMatter is not just a cardboard sign. White educators and PD providers: you have a role in ending systemic oppression. Have conversations about race in your classroom. Embed Black history in culturally sensitive curricula. Work to abolish the school-to-prison pipeline --see the effects of policing on yr own students. Support students as they work thru racial trauma. Really ask yourself what "equity" means in your work. No matter whether you can do it in the streets, you can in the classroom. https://twitter.com/trussleaders…/status/1267333391604527104
Like many of you, I have followed the events in Minneapolis and the demonstrations in cities around the nation in response to the tragic death of George Floyd with a mixture of deep sadness, frustration, anger and disappointment. My heart goes out to all those feeling pain and anguish over this senseless death and to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives in the protests of recent days or who have suffered loss and damage in other ways. It is truly difficult to comprehend this tragedy and to find the right words to console the many people, especially members of the African-American community, who are hurting right now and hoping that justice will ultimately be served.  

To echo IU Vice President James Wimbush, who eloquently expressed his sadness and great concern earlier today on the reaction, in his home city of Indianapolis, to George Floyd’s death, the list is far too long of those black and brown individuals who have been subjected to disturbing violence in recent years. This list underscores the racism, bigotry, intolerance and hatred that too many members of our society, especially people of color, are forced to confront on a daily basis. It also draws our attention to the deeply disturbing growth in recent years here and around the world in the number of hate groups, as well as the immensely concerning increase in the number of acts of hatred and violence against minorities.

Here at IU, students of color now make up more than a quarter of the university’s total enrollment. Hence what is happening in Minneapolis and other cities around the nation serves as a powerful reminder that we have a special obligation to work to ensure that our campus communities are places where differences of all kinds, whether of race, ethnicity or belief, are respected, valued and protected, and where hatred, bigotry and intolerance will be powerfully condemned.

We are all members of an educational community, and as such, we must always, as part of the very core of what we do, face the challenges inherent in understanding and evaluating the ideas, assertions and arguments that come from other perspectives, other traditions, other disciplines and other beliefs, as we pursue our fundamental mission of searching for knowledge and truth. At the same time, we cannot afford to ignore the lessons drawn from the serious and informed study of present-day racism and intolerance and their deep connections with centuries-old traditions of suspicion and hatred. Much important scholarship is taking place at IU in these areas, and that scholarship has never been more important.

We must continue to insist that there is absolutely no room at IU for discrimination or harassment based on anyone’s actual or perceived race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin or political beliefs. We see our diversity as one of our cardinal virtues. We are extremely proud of our students of color and their achievements – students who are such a vital part of the cultural and historical fabric of our institution, but we will have failed them if we cannot provide to them campus environments where they feel safe, supported and respected. 

In the days and months ahead, we must strongly reaffirm Indiana University’s fundamental commitment to diversity and equity. We must condemn those who seek to divide us based on race, ethnicity, national origin and other areas. We must join together as a strong and vigorous educational community to be inclusive, supportive and welcoming to all. And we must always stand up for what is good and right.



Johns Hopkins University and Medicine shared a message Sunday in solidarity against racism. The message responds to the rise of anti-Asian discrimination during the coronavirus pandemic and the deaths of African Americans that have sparked recent protests in cities across the U.S., including in Baltimore.

Johns Hopkins released the following statement:

Dear Members of the Johns Hopkins Community,

In the past three months, across the U.S. and around the globe, we have experienced extraordinary challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In communities of which Johns Hopkins is a part—from Baltimore City, Washington, D.C., Prince George's, Howard, and Montgomery Counties to St. Petersburg, Florida, and many more—we have witnessed our African American, Latinx, Native American, and poverty-stricken communities disproportionately dying from COVID-19, while our Asian and Asian American communities have been targeted with vitriol because of the disease's origins. People have lost family members, and the economic impact of this pandemic has led to many people having lost their jobs.

This has been a tremendous burden for many to bear. The recent death of George Floyd in Minneapolis as well as the deaths of Breonna Taylor, a first responder in Louisville, Kentucky, shot in her own bed while sleeping; Ahmaud Arbery, shot while jogging near Brunswick, Georgia; and far too many others reinforce the brutal truth that the African American community still remains vulnerable to senseless violence, even during a pandemic. For those of us in Baltimore, these tragedies also call to mind the death of Freddie Gray while in police custody five years ago. And this moment serves as a reminder of the compounding effects on our communities.

Because we are all intricately connected by our common humanity, if one segment of our community is hurting, it adversely impacts all of us. This is not just an issue for African Americans; it is an issue that threatens the future for all Americans.

We hear the needs of the Johns Hopkins community to have an honest dialogue about these issues and develop steps to address them through our daily activities and relationships, scholarship and teaching, and health care delivery and leadership. We must acknowledge that these vulnerabilities to violence and health crises faced by black and brown communities are born out of continued racial disparities in education, employment, housing, and criminal justice. To that end, under the leadership of the JHM Office of Diversity and Inclusion and in collaboration with other groups across Johns Hopkins, we will host a Journeys in Healing symposium series, "The Language of the Unheard: A Virtual Town Hall on Racial Injustice," in early June. More details will follow once dates have been solidified.

We also recognize and acknowledge the anguish that these recent incidents are causing for our faculty, students, staff, trainees, and alumni across the Johns Hopkins family. We encourage you to access the many supportive services available. At JHM, these services include mySupport, Spiritual Care and Chaplaincy, the Office of Well-Being, the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, and the JHM Office of Diversity and Inclusion. University affiliates can reach out to mySupport, find student wellness resources at wellness.jhu.edu or on the Student Outreach and Support site, or contact the Office of Institutional Equity for assistance.

During this time of immense challenge, let us work together to be a light to facilitate education, healing, connection, support, and service to each other and to our community.


Open Letter to the Students of Johnson C. Smith University

The World Needs YOU Now More Than Ever 
In the midst of a pandemic that has affected nearly every continent on earth, that has exposed and laid bare the inequalities borne most heavily by the poor and underserved of our community; we now find this country in the midst of facing once again the harsh reality of the legacy of racism, the seeds of which were planted over 400 years ago on this continent. In the last several weeks we have witnessed Ahmaud Arbery's senseless killing while jogging in Georgia; black delivery men in an Oklahoma gated community being held against their will for failing to answer the questions of two white men who questioned the delivery men's right to have entered their enclave; a white female New York City investment banker call the police on a black man who merely asked that she follow the law and leash her dog while in Central Park; and most recently, the shocking death of George Floyd as a white police officer kneeled on his neck for over 8 minutes, literally two minutes after he had already gasped his last breath.

The cumulative effect of these events and similar events, which occurred in years past, has led to understandable frustrations that ask the question: When will this end? The insidious nature of racism suggests that it may not be soon, but it is my hope that you and your peers at institutions of higher education throughout this country, especially those attending HBCUs, will lead this country to a new understanding of its obligations to ensure that the inequality gap does not continue to expand and that we make certain all members of society have the opportunities to reach their full potential.

Two weeks ago, 70 HBCUs, including Johnson C. Smith University, participated in a nationwide commencement celebration. President Barack Obama was among the many people who offered words of wisdom to our graduates.  I am reminded of something he said in making an observation of the state of the world and the significance of the graduates being honored that day. To paraphrase, he said: "We need you now, more than ever!" I wholeheartedly agree with President Obama.  It is critical that your voices are heard; your perspectives are seen; and your experiences are acknowledged in helping to examine, explore and resolve many of the stresses that are threatening to rip the fabric of our society apart.

I know the events of the last few days may have you confused and wondering where is your place in the world.  I would amplify President Obama's call to you: We need you now, more than ever!  And we, the faculty, staff, administration and Trustees of JCSU stand ready, willing and able to prepare you to take on the issues of injustice and inequality facing this country and the world.

Stay safe! We are looking forward to the day when we can reconvene on campus as the unified, resilient and strong community that we are. 

Sincerely,

Clarence D. Armbrister signature

Clarence D. Armbrister, J.D.

President
As we work to reawaken our university community from our COVID-19 isolation, we also must contend with social injustice issues plaguing our country. At the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, around the country, we witnessed acts of prejudice toward those from China and other Asian countries. Now, we are witnessing protests over the killing of black and Latino individuals by law enforcement officers. This is clearly no time to be silent on issues of social justice.

A number of K-State faculty and staff have meaningfully engaged the Kansas higher education community in dialogue on these matters. We believe, unapologetically, that there is nothing to debate. Social injustice is alive and well and more often than not, finds its way to the doorsteps and lives of individuals in the most marginalized communities.

We recognize these acts of injustice may not have taken place on our campuses or in our communities, but they can still have a profound impact on our community members. Our students, faculty, staff and administrators are affected by these acts of injustice. In some cases, members of our community may think this could happen to them, their family members or their friends.

The Kansas State University Police Department is dedicated to our community and strives to earn our confidence and respect. We know this respect is hard-won and can be easily lost — it only takes one incident to erase years of goodwill. Our officers are highly professional and well trained in how to interact with our community members. We have confidence they endeavor to uphold our community values. In this time of strife, they also deserve our continued respect and support. 

At Kansas State University, we affirm the inherent dignity and value of every person and strive to maintain an atmosphere of justice based on respect for each other. We understand the impact these acts of social injustice have on marginalized communities and their allies. We stand with you and we ask our community members to demonstrate the empathy, sympathy and social responsibility that reflects the same accountability we expect of those entrusted to protect and serve.

Those who have been impacted by recent events are encouraged to contact Student Life or Counseling Services by calling 785-532-6927.

Social injustice has always been with us, but we must stand up for what's right and support those who feel threatened or marginalized.
We all have spent much of the last few days watching as the nation mourns the death of George Floyd. We join the nation in mourning. Our collective sorrow remembers Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery, two African Americans also killed this year. Our grief and pain also are tied to the reality that African Americans along with other marginalized communities are disproportionately impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Closer to home, two members of our beloved Golden Flashes community, state Sen. and Kent State Associate Professor of Political Science Vernon Sykes and state Rep. and Kent State alumna Emilia Strong Sykes, received threats related to their duties as elected state officials. Additionally, on May 3, an individual known to authorities for his anti-Semitic views was heard asking a store clerk in Stow the location of Kent State and made comments that could be perceived as threatening to the Jewish community. Fortunately, the individual did not make it to Kent and was arrested on another charge.

In recent statements by both Black United Students and the Undergraduate Student Government, these issues are on the minds of many of our student leaders who are actively working toward a vision of equity and justice that will shape a better future.

It is the hope and aspirations of our students, combined with the history and lessons of May 4, 1970, that remind us of the need to study the root causes of current troubles as we search for a better future. We are called to learn more about the structures, histories, assumptions, prejudices and cultures that lead to disparate outcomes in healthcare, in the judicial system and in myriad aspects of our lives. We are thankful that our Kent State historians, sociologists, public health professors, Peace and Conflict Studies and Pan-African Studies professors, and many, many others are participating in these national conversations. Understanding and improving the world we inhabit are central to what we do at Kent State, as is our commitment to kindness and respect in all that we do.

As we work to reopen our university safely, let us remember that many of our community members live daily with injustices that inflict pain, trauma and a host of other emotions. As Golden Flashes, we ask that you recommit yourselves to the promotion of equity and justice and continue to lift up our institutional values of respect, kindness and purpose. We appreciate each of you and look forward to continuing the work of making our community equitable and inclusive for all.





The recent tragic events in Minneapolis around the death of George Floyd, as well as other incidents of violence inflicted upon African Americans in our country, have shocked the nation and deeply affected all of us.  Our deepest sympathies go out to the family and loved ones of Mr. Floyd and the families and friends of those who have lost their lives to other horrific and senseless acts of racism. These events further demonstrate our need to stand together as a community and take ownership of our obligation to fight against the systemic discrimination and racial disparities that continue to plague our nation.

As members of the Lehigh University community, we must affirm our values—equality, peaceful dialogue, the free exchange of ideas and the encouragement of respectful debate—and support the condemnation and repudiation of systemic discrimination, hate and intolerance and their violent manifestation. We must continue to affirm our shared responsibility to fight ignorance, model inclusive excellence and embrace the power of diversity.

It is our shared responsibility to work together to create a society in which discrimination and racism are no longer tolerated.  We must play an active role in understanding, candidly engaging in dialogue, and solving the problems of racial inequity and injustice.

While I would not presume to speak about the experience of African Americans, I know African Americans in the Lehigh community are feeling anger, outrage and fear in the wake of the violence we have witnessed. I once again ask that we as a Lehigh community recommit to our shared values; reject hatred, bigotry and intolerance; and reflect on what each of us can do, large or small, and how we can come together with hope and determination to create a more just, actively inclusive and equitable community.




I recall, back in early January, thinking about the powerful imagery of the year 2020 and imagining a world where we would have a better and more acute vision of our collective humanity. 

Now, nearly midway through this year, the quest appears even more pressing. Collectively, we are facing the challenge of a lifetime. In the midst of a pandemic, we watch as people across North America mobilize against injustice and racism, provoked in particular by the tragic death of George Floyd one week ago.

Feelings of sadness, anger, fear, and a sense of helplessness are shared by all of us. I recognize that many members of our community, especially our Black students, faculty, and staff, may need support at this time; resources are listed below. 

Yet, in this turbulent moment, it remains critical to remember that our strength lies in our unity and in living the principles that McGill embraces in its mission. Among those principles are equity and inclusiveness. Living these principles means going beyond publicly denouncing racism and other forms of social injustice. We are also called to consider how universities have the responsibility, to confront and work to flatten social inequities through dialogue and the advancement of knowledge. Every one of us shares in this responsibility as we live through a moment in history that calls for leadership and action anchored to knowledge, compassion, and courage.

We are living during a time of profound hurt, anger, frustration and, for many, a time of deep disappointment and despair regarding the recent high-profile violent events targeting Black Americans – the most recent being the inescapable images of George Floyd, dying while a police officer knelt on his neck.   

The shocking events in Minnesota, as well as too many other similar killings in communities including Ahmaud Arbery, killed while jogging, and Breonna Taylor, who was shot to death by police raiding her home, bring much pain, anger and trauma to many members of our community, and we cannot let them go unnoticed or unacknowledged. They are incomprehensible. Unjust. Inhumane.  

First and foremost, as leaders of this university, it is important that we speak out against these atrocities. To our Black students, faculty and staff, know that we both stand with you. The university stands with you.

It is important, as Spartans, that we collectively understand and acknowledge the impact of racism and that the Black community is under attack in many ways right now. In addition to the recent deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and so many others who are targeted because of their skin color, we have a global health pandemic that is powerfully and incontrovertibly revealing the inequities in our society.  

All of this is taking a heavy emotional toll on many of our friends, families and fellow Spartans. These events remind us that we have a responsibility to engage in the work necessary to understand we live in a diverse world and a diverse campus community, and by virtue of this we also have a responsibility to each other to respond to these injustices – acknowledge them, empathize with one another and accept each other.

We are committed to building an inclusive environment here at MSU, one that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. However, this commitment must be manifested in ways that extend well beyond words. We hope you will do what you can as students, faculty and staff at MSU to fight racism, disrupt injustice and actively support each other. The next several months will test our resolve, our community and our nation. 
****tweeted image**



During the past weeks and months, disturbing, racially charged situations and tragic deaths have occurred across the U.S. – including Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, Christian Cooper and most recently George Floyd. We are now witnessing protests in cities across the U.S., some of which have been marked by violence.

On our own campus we also recently experienced the impact of racially charged posts on social media made by incoming freshmen.

One student posted a disturbing video to My Story on Snapchat. A person in the My Story group re-posted it on Twitter. Perhaps the intent of the video can be debated. Its impact cannot.

Another student used an offensive racial slur while engaging in a social media exchange with a black student from her high school.

Many of you have reached out to share the hurt, anger and disbelief you experienced upon watching the video. It demonstrates a disturbing lack of empathy and respect for the death of Mr. Floyd, his family and others who have suffered similarly while in police custody.

Many others have expressed anger and disbelief at the nature and tone of the hurtful social media posts.

After seeing these social media posts and viewing the video, I, too, was horrified. My first impulse was to rescind the offer of admission to these students. But then I was reminded of a couple of things.

Missouri State University is a public university with a public affairs mission.

As a public university we are legally required to uphold the principles of free speech embodied in the First Amendment to the Constitution. The video – as hurtful, insensitive and offensive as it is – is protected by the First Amendment, as was the language in the social media posts.

I will admit that it was tempting to ignore the First Amendment in this case. Doing so would violate our legal obligations but, more importantly, it would effectively prevent the university from accomplishing its mission.

Missouri State has a responsibility to educate students on the three pillars of our public affairs mission – ethical leadership, community engagement and cultural competence. The video and the social media posts clearly reveal that these students – and, let’s be honest, many of us – are in desperate need of education, training and experiences that will help us develop cultural consciousness as well as cultural competence.

We cannot expect or require that students come to us fully formed, possessing all of the skills and characteristics that exemplify Citizen Scholars. It is our job and our duty to help them develop these traits through education and exposure.

Recognizing the impact of the video and the social media post, these students have chosen to withdraw from the university. We had planned to allow them to join our campus community in the fall, knowing that this decision would be ridiculed, questioned and second-guessed. But it was under the conditions that they participate in additional education and training to assist them in both understanding the impact of their actions and in developing cultural competence.

Social media is rife with opportunities to damage reputations or hurt thousands of people with one statement or one video. It is important that we are all mindful of its impact and if we choose to participate, to think very carefully before we post.

As one might expect, these students have been bombarded with hate, ridicule and even death threats. Both are 18 years old. While they displayed poor judgement, they don’t deserve to have their lives threatened.

As a university, we are acutely aware that many of our incoming students of all backgrounds may have made poor choices when posting on social media when they were teenagers. These are formative years when people change and grow. As a university, we are not going to police everyone’s social media accounts. We legally cannot and, in my opinion, should not bar a student from entry for offensive comments posted as an adolescent. I believe in grace, redemption and the probability that a college education can change people for the better. It did me.

That being said, we will continue to educate our students on the three pillars of our public affairs mission. And given the current environment, we will continue to give special emphasis to the awareness, knowledge and skills required to be culturally competent in a global society and world.

Thank you for all you do for Missouri State.
We have no tolerance for discrimination or acts of hate in our community. No matter where you come from, no matter your race, gender, identity, preference or perspective, we all come together to learn, and everyone deserves to be treated with respect and to thrive.
At MIT, Commencement is the most beautiful day of the year. Even in this strange pandemic moment, this afternoon’s graduation celebration will offer us all the opportunity to celebrate the wonderful spirit, character and accomplishments of our newest graduates.

That joy is and should be perfect and untouchable.

But I write with a heart that is also full of anguish – because it is impossible to face this particular day without an overwhelming sense of concern for our nation.

The death of George Floyd and the events unfolding in Minneapolis are deeply disturbing in themselves. And of course, they come on the heels of highly charged incidents, from Georgia to New York, that highlight yet again the tragic persistence of racism and systemic injustice in the United States.

I know that the pain of these events is especially intense for certain members of our community, beginning with those who are African American and of African descent, though certainly not ending there. And I know that, in this time of tension around the pandemic and rising strains in US-China relations, others in our community are also suffering distinctive forms of harassment and discrimination.

I imagine that you may share my urgent desire to help, while feeling an awful powerlessness to do so. At this moment, let’s do what we can. I believe a place to begin is by cherishing and seeking to strengthen our dear MIT community. Imperfect, certainly. But a community with an essential commitment to facing hard facts, thoughtfully striving to correct our errors – and working together to address humanity’s greatest challenges. A community where we aspire always to treat one another with sympathy, humility, decency, respect and kindness.

Let us treasure and care for that community – and let us work to make it better.

In the days and months to come, I would like us to find meaningful ways to come together to work on these challenges, for ourselves and for our society. I have asked John Dozier, our Institute Community and Equity Officer, to guide us in this effort. You may reach him directly at jdozier@mit.edu.

For now: I take hope in turning my thoughts to the new graduates we share with the world this afternoon. Today is our beloved Commencement day, a day when we honor the achievements of our graduating students and charge them with helping to heal the world. That charge will be all the more meaningful now, grounded in the very present struggles for our nation and for the world.

With great love and concern for our community and our nation,
There are events in our days that define our lives as well as our national consequence. We are witnessing one of such moments of definition as individuals and as a nation.

Just starting to emerge from the disorienting experiences provoked by a debilitating pandemic, last week we learned about the tragedy of George Floyd, an African American man who died lying on a street in Minneapolis, while pleading for his life. This past Sunday in Bozeman, community leaders, including MSU students, thoughtfully organized a peaceful demonstration that brought together thousands in support of Black Americans and all people of color, while committing to take on the challenge of dismantling racism, seeking justice and promoting peace. I am proud to see our community members making their voices heard in peaceful, productive ways in an effort towards positive change.

At this historic hour, we stand with our students, faculty and staff of color and with every individual - irrespective of race, ethnicity and gender - who is feeling fear, anger and pain because of these events. You are not alone and we see you.

Our heart also goes out to people who are victimized and caught in the confusion created by others who want to take advantage of this situation to sow discord and destruction. We cannot condone violence in any of its senseless expressions.

We have a responsibility - and the opportunity - to work together to address the injustice and inequality that our founding as a public university sought to eradicate. As the land-grant institution of the state, your Montana State University is committed to maximizing access and success for everyone, to finding lasting solutions, and to build a better world and a more just society.

In these times more than ever, we see the value and urgency of the power of education, diversity and community. In the coming weeks, there will be opportunities for MSU students, faculty, staff and neighbors to participate in conversation and action, as part of our mission to engage with the communities we serve. As one of our institutional documents proudly proclaims, "We believe that excellence at Montana State University is best achieved through a culture of intellectual and personal growth that is diverse and inclusive."

Let us come together as one people to create an environment in which our differences are the source of our strength. 



For as long as I live, I will never forget the horrific video of Mr. George Floyd being woefully asphyxiated by the knee of a morally bankrupt officer of the law. For what seemed like an eternity, we witnessed Mr. Floyd's very breath being extinguished from him. His cries of "mama" and "I can't breathe" fell empty on the ears of the callous and cold-hearted officer. I have not been able to sleep restfully since witnessing this tragedy.

I know our community is hurting, yet again, at the sight of another unarmed young Black man die at the hands of those sworn to protect and serve. I know our blood is boiling and our emotions are high. Believe me, I truly understand! As the father of a young Black man, and as an uncle and a great uncle to scores of other young men, I have great empathy for the families who endure such atrocities of civil and human rights. No family should ever have to experience the loss of a loved one in such a brutal and overtly racist manner.

Even in light of what I've said, I say to all of us, let's stand up for the value of our lives, but if you feel compelled to protest this great injustice, please do so peacefully and with the best interest of your fellow man and woman. We must triple our efforts to rid our society of racism—which, seemingly, in the modern era, has resulted in a practice that Black male lives, in particular, are dispensable.

Go forward and voice your collective stand against injustice with vigor, passion and solidarity in the true Morgan tradition, but as you do, please do so peacefully.

United in equality and humanity,


Research and data clearly show that structural racism and the experience of day-to-day racism result in significant and compounding negative health impacts for people of color. We will highlight these data over the next few weeks and hope you will follow along.
Racism and associated health impacts.



The death of George Floyd has brought us to a point of inflection throughout our country, and it has done so for multiple reasons.

Mr. Floyd's death was captured on video, so we have been forced to see a truth we would rather not believe. That video is both heartbreaking and infuriating. No decent person could watch the extermination of a helpless human being in such a callous manner without experiencing feelings of true anger and despair.

We all have seen this story before, and far too frequently. We have watched as many, particularly men of color, have lost their lives to violence and hate. The circumstances may change, as may the individuals involved, but the result is devastatingly consistent.

Yes, we all have tried to say the right things after these incidents--we have expressed our disgust as well as our grief and sympathy.

Have we DONE the right things, though?

Have we challenged racism and ignorance, even when we see it expressed subtly in "polite company" by those we would consider to be colleagues or friends? Have we honestly questioned and explored our own biases and how they shape our behaviors? Have we worked hard enough to create diversity, and with it greater understanding of and appreciation for one another, throughout our networks and organizations? Have we been guilty of, despite our best intentions, moving on to the next crisis of the day and failing in our commitment to make positive change?

I have struggled to find the right words at this time, and to posit some answers for how we sustain the necessary systemic change. Maybe the questions I posed in the previous paragraph must be examined with unvarnished candor, thereby affecting our individual actions, our willingness to speak out and, as a result, affect those around us while strengthening our efforts to achieve systemic change.

I am extremely proud to be part of a richly diverse university community that is strengthened by its diversity. I believe NJIT serves as an example of what most communities should strive for, but that does not mean we can pretend what we have seen is not our problem. It is our problem, and we have a responsibility that we cannot shirk. Please join me in committing to not let this moment pass without becoming better as individuals and as a community. I welcome your thoughts and suggestions for how to accomplish those goals. My thoughts and prayers are with the family of George Floyd and all those who feel angry, sad, and powerless at this time. We must work hard to resolve the issue of racism thoughtfully, peacefully, and with accountability for those who disregard the value of life of our fellow Americans.

Once again, we find ourselves filled with sorrow, outrage, and grief over a loss of yet another Black person's life at the hands of law enforcement that was tragic, unjust, and avoidable. There have been numerous appalling events over the last few weeks during an already difficult time—a pandemic. While it is hard to find words to describe the shocking ghastliness of the videoed last minutes of George Floyd's life on a Minneapolis street, with a police officer's knee on his neck, the poignant and unheeded pleas of Mr. Floyd and the bystanders—as in previous occurrences—remain haunting. His cries tear at our hearts, just as the knowledge that events like this seem to happen again and again and again rips not only at our conscience but at what we all consider to be a just and humane society.

This is one of those moments when reason and knowledge and discourse, which university citizens prize so highly, often doesn't seem like enough of a response. How could they be, when these deaths keep recurring, and when racism continues to manifest itself, even in our own community?

But reason, discourse, study, evidence, analysis—those are our tools, and events like the killing of George Floyd should not cause us to set them aside, but instead to redouble our exertions to use them in the cause of addressing racism, xenophobia, violence, and hate to underscore social justice, human dignity, inclusion, and peace. Many of our scholars already study the issues so evident in the Floyd video—inequality, race, and the inequities of the criminal justice system. Over the summer, I will be examining—and I am sure this will be true for many of you, too—how else our University might contribute to the goal of creating more just practices and systems. In the meantime, on behalf of the NYU community, I offer our University's sympathies to the family and loved ones of George Floyd, with whom we grieve for his lost life and the unspeakable suffering to which he was subjected, as well all of those impacted by this and the other terrible recent events. To deal with these types of issues while simultaneously navigating a pandemic that is giving rise to differential impacts on communities of color, and in particular, those of African descent, is especially oppressive.

Finally, my heart goes out to those in our own community who have been feeling overwhelmed by grief or apprehension because of fear for their own safety, their families, and loved ones. I want to remind you that NYU stands with you, and we have resources to help: for students at the Wellness Exchange, and for employees through Carebridge. And please also note that the Office of Global Inclusion (OGI) continues to plan events for the community.



As I write this, cities across the country, including here in Greensboro and around North Carolina, are ablaze in unrest and souls in anguish over George Floyd’s death at the hands of Minneapolis police. It was a scene, unfortunately, like many we have seen before, in which the life of an African American man is extinguished in a confrontation that, at minimum, could have been deescalated; at best, avoided entirely. It leaves millions of us around our nation with a reasonable and just question: Why? In the absence of an acceptable answer – and to be clear, there is no acceptable answer – we are left with heavy hearts, sick with grief, inflamed with anger.   

I join the Aggie family in grieving the loss of George Floyd and in voicing a commitment that his death cannot be allowed to pass in vain. As the leader of the nation’s largest historically black university, an institution borne of the bigotry connected by a straight line of history to Floyd’s death, I appreciate the weight of this moment on the shoulders of our students, their families, our faculty and staff and our alumni. As we collectively bear witness to this injustice, we do so from the vantage point of our university, and the tools and knowledge we can bring to bear in this moment of pain and despair. What can our faculty and students do to bring understanding and context to this incident? What measures of change and solution can their scholarly work make clear? What light can they shed on intersecting dynamics of race, the criminal justice system, history, economics and the human psyche that will illuminate truth for a troubled nation? 

In the weeks and months ahead, I pray that the moral imperative of this moment will not fade, and that we will rise to the challenges that our leadership has prepared us to meet. If the aftermath of George Floyd’s death is, indeed, not to be mere protest but a predicate for change in which minds, hearts, policies and practices are forever altered, it will only do so if it is nourished by knowledge and truth. Let us commit ourselves collectively to surfacing those invaluable ingredients of change. 

For now, I encourage all of us to avail ourselves of the community and family ties that bind us at A&T. Lean on one another for comfort, and don’t be afraid to reach out if you are struggling. For our students, additional help is available through Counseling Services at 336-334-7727, Monday through Friday, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. For faculty and staff, the university’s Employee Assistance Program services provider, ComPsych Guidance Resources, is here for you at 866-511-3373, password: NCAT. This service is confidential and free of charge to you as an employee.
I write today as a leader of one of the nation's Historically Black Colleges and Universities. First, I would like to express my deep condolences to the family of Mr. George Floyd who was killed by Minneapolis, Minnesota, police officers on May 25, 2020. On behalf of North Carolina Central University, I join citizens from across our nation and around the world in expressing deep concern about this blatant tragedy and condemning its perpetrators. This incident highlighted how equality and justice are not fairly dispensed in our country. 

We are all incensed by the disturbing images of African Americans whose lives have been taken violently across the nation. As we grieve and try to make sense of these tragic deaths and incidents, we also seek reassurance that justice will be served swiftly and those who are responsible will be held accountable. 

As a community of students, faculty, and staff, we must together call for the restructuring of our judicial system to create one that dispenses justice equally, regardless of racial, ethnic or sexual orientation. As an institution that was founded by a visionary and fearless leader, this university represents the values that Dr. James E. Shepard exhibited with incredible fortitude and strength as he built a progressive learning institution for African Americans in Durham in the early 1900s. Intent on his mission despite the history of oppression that African Americans and other communities of color had faced, Dr. Shepard demonstrated that no obstacle is insurmountable.

The events surrounding us today represent another moment in history when silence and status-quo are no longer acceptable. I ask you to appeal to our local, state and federal leaders to address the ongoing pattern of racial injustice and disparities that exist within our society and embrace public policies that can truly achieve this country's ideals.

I am counting on each of you, as Eagles, to lead us in seeking a more perfect union. As Dr. King said in his historic "I Have a Dream"speech in 1963, we all seek to live in a nation where we will not be judged by the color of our skin, but by the content of our character.  NCCU continues to uphold and nurture an environment of diversity and inclusion that celebrates and respects all voices and opinions.

Students, faculty and staff: In this painful time, I urge you to take advantage of the resources made available in your university community. I encourage students to contact the Counseling Center if you need assistance dealing with this very difficult moment. Faculty and staff may access the Employee Assistance Program to learn about assistance options available. 

Together, let us keep on pursuing a peaceful quest for equality and justice in the days, weeks and months to come. I hope each of you remain secure in knowing the NCCU community is standing by your side. 
he inhumane and unjust circumstances surrounding the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis on Monday have left many in our community, myself included, feeling deep sorrow, frustration and understandable anger. Over the weekend we’ve witnessed this grief and anger displayed in many ways, including a peaceful protest in Raleigh, and unfortunately, separate acts of vandalism against many of our local businesses that have done so much to help build a culture of inclusion in our community.

As a higher education community dedicated to thought and action that improves the world around us, we condemn acts of racism, discrimination and violence.

In the course of the past few months, we have again witnessed more instances of violence against people of color – including Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery – that serve as a continual and painful reminder that unjust racial disparities continue in our country. How could we not be sorrowful, and angry, at this moment? It is past time for drastically needed and rightful change.

We must acknowledge that a person’s race is still too often used to determine how they will be treated in almost every aspect of American life. And as a leading U.S. institution of higher education, we are committed to our critical role in helping right the injustices of racism and discrimination. I believe higher education can and should be a positive influence on lives well beyond academic instruction, and that we need to help lead the way forward toward equality, equity and justice for all in our country.

As the state’s largest public university, we have the responsibility to educate ourselves and those who pass through our doors to overcome ignorance, unite against intolerance, model inclusivity, and advance the dignity and power of diversity.

The events of this week must serve as a catalyst for all in our community to be unequivocally dedicated to building an inclusive environment that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. I remain committed to that goal, and expect you will do all you can in your role at NC State – as a student, faculty or staff member, or friend of the university – to eliminate racism and all other forms of discrimination.

As members of this intellectual community, I strongly encourage all of us to fight for positive change powerfully, thoughtfully and peacefully. I also encourage each of us to embrace with humility that we all have more to learn as it relates to understanding our own places of prejudice and how we can strive to overcome how these impact our own actions.

As Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity Sheri Schwab wrote in her recent Statement Regarding the Events in Minneapolis (if you haven’t yet read it, please do), Provost Arden and I have charged a task force to ensure advancing diversity, inclusion and well-being is inherent and represented in every aspect of NC State’s next 10-year Strategic Plan. We’ll be finalizing the plan over the summer, and encourage our community to provide your feedback via the Strategic Plan Task Force website.

Over the summer, I’ll also be working with Vice Provost Schwab and other university leaders to ensure opportunities for vital community discussions and feedback opportunities related to diversity and inclusion on campus when we return in the fall, in whatever format those need to take in the new COVID-19 environment.

In the meantime, please keep up with important diversity-and-inclusion-related news, events, announcements and opportunities to get involved by subscribing to the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity’s (OIED) Diversity Digest. Also, review the Diversity web portal from the university’s homepage to find education and training resources, diversity and inclusion programs, details about NC State’s Campus Community Centers, an events calendar and more important information.

NC State’s greatest strength is its people – all its people – and their diversity of thought and experience. It is on each and all of us to fight injustice and advance a truly diverse, inclusive and supportive environment for all on our campus and well beyond. That’s what it means to be part of this Wolfpack.
As a result of the events of the past week, we are writing to express support for all of us who may be struggling to understand and react and in particular our students and colleagues of color who may be experiencing pain and anguish.

North Dakota State University has clearly stated values in denouncing discrimination, harassment and retaliation as integral to our success as a student-focused, land-grant, research university.

What that means in difficult times is we support one another any way we can. We listen, we work to understand, we actively work together toward a more inclusive and accepting community for all of us.

More formally, we remind our community of support available through the following sources:

• Confidential resources to support students are available through the NDSU Counseling Center.

• Educational and reporting resources related to equity and inclusion may be found here.

• Confidential resources to support faculty and staff are available through the Employee Assistance Program.

• The University Ombuds is a resource for faculty members, graduate students and academic staff.

We also encourage us all to continue efforts to increase our understanding by reading, asking questions, listening and welcoming one another. 
We have heard the chorus of raised voices demanding that we make real, at last, the promise of American democracy for the many millions of African-Americans who have given so much to build it. We feel, in the words of Dr. King, "The fierce urgency of now."

On Monday, June 8, we will suspend all classes and close all administrative and academic offices on all of our campuses. We will use this time and space—exactly two weeks after the unjust and inhumane killing of George Floyd—to hold a Day for Reflection, Engagement, and Action. We will join together in unity with those all around the world who are grieving and angry over persistent injustice toward African-American citizens.

We will begin with an online vigil at 11 a.m. to remember George Floyd and all African-Americans whose lives have been brutally taken from us. At 2 p.m., we will feature a conversation with Professor of Law Margaret Burnham, founder of Northeastern's Civil Rights and Restorative Justice Project, on ways we can move forward together.

In the days that follow, we will commence a series of virtual town halls on race and justice led by Deans Uta Poiger and James Hackney, co-chairs of the Presidential Council on Diversity and Inclusion.

On June 19, we will gather on all of our campuses for a Day of Solidarity. June 19, often known as "Juneteenth"or Freedom Day, is traditionally a day to celebrate the emancipation of slaves in the U.S. We will gather together to listen, to speak, and to engage one another in advancing the cause of justice.

These events are just the beginning of a series of specific actions that Northeastern will undertake.

It is important to note that we won't always get it right. We won't always find the right words. But we must work together to address the pain. We must find the solidarity that we as a society—and as fellow human beings—so desperately need right now.

There is no time to waste. Working together in mutual trust and understanding to achieve the change that we seek, let us begin.
I felt outrage and disgust watching video of the fatal mistreatment of George Floyd in Minneapolis. 

And I was further sickened this morning when our recent graduate, CNN's Omar Jimenez, was arrested live on television for, as Medill Dean Charles Whitaker described it, "the sin of doing journalism."

Our Northwestern community grieves for the many ways in which our society tolerates and facilitates injustices, demonstrated so vividly in these and other recent events. 

Dean Whitaker poignantly expressed his personal pain as a father of African-American sons. Many of the rest of us can barely begin to imagine the personal toll that racism takes on marginalized communities every single day. But we can all increase our resolve to create a Northwestern community, and a world, where all people are accorded the dignity and the safety they deserve. 

Our nation must do better, and I pledge that I, and our university, will work toward that end.
The recent killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and now George Floyd are heartbreaking tragedies that further show the injustice and systemic racism the Black community faces every day. It's been hard to find the right words for this message because I keep imagining the images and videos capturing these horrific acts and the Black community struggling to be heard when crying out for justice and peace. My heart goes out to the families, friends, and those directly or indirectly impacted.

Blatant acts of racism, hatred, and police brutality should not be normalized again.  Unfortunately, we have been here before.  Many of us remember the recent names… Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice, Eric Garner, Sandra Bland, Atatiana Jefferson, Botham Jean, Philando Castile, and now Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and George Floyd, all victims of a shameful legacy of hate.  We must continue to say the names of those lost to senseless acts of violence and racism.

"I can't breathe"were some of the last words from Mr. Floyd before his life was taken right before our eyes. They were also the last words of Eric Garner in 2014. It is suffocating to exist in a space where Black lives are considered disposable with little hope for real systematic change. I pose this question: "what are we going to do to advocate for equity for our communities and nation?"
 
As a Society within this society, we want to see justice.  We want it in the cases dominating the news but also for the 99.9% of cases most of us will never hear about.  We expect justice to be dispatched swiftly and equitably, according to the law, and not influenced by income, race, or connections.  However, we would also like to see that equality extended to our educational institutions – at every level and to companies and industries solving our countries' most complex problems.  We should not be marginalized; as descendants of those who helped build this nation, we seek full participation in all aspects of society with a fair chance to help make America a more perfect union. 

Of course, we recognize that radical change requires allies; Black people do not have the numbers or resources to bring about systemic change alone.  So, we call on those who believe everyone deserves a chance to fulfill their potential to provide opportunities, to open doorways and create pathways for those who did not have access to the resources that produce advantages.  Finally, we ask those who believe in the mission of the National Society of Black Engineers to invest in this cause so our members can thrive and continue to be agents of positive change.

Now is the time for the conversation.  Now is the time for understanding.  This is the perfect time in history for our country to embrace national ideals for all of its citizens.  We implore righteous people to honor and protect our inalienable rights to liberty, opportunity, and equality. 

We cannot remain silent at a time like this.  We must call for political action to invoke social change, to end police brutality, and dismantle systemic racism.  We are not powerless. Nelson Mandela put it best when he said, "education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world."We encourage all NSBE members and allies to take action and let your voices be heard... mentor, vote, make calls, write, participate, post, march… be the example.

NSBE is compiling a list of health, grief, and wellness support resources to assist our members in coping with all of these troubling events; that information will be provided in another official communication.  Moreover, we are developing a team of leaders to create ways for our organization to use its platform to speak out on social justice issues.  Above all, I ask you to hold on to hope, to seek refuge in faith, and the knowledge that we will get to the other side of this bleak moment.  Together, we will overcome this adversity, as we have in the past, and continue our march toward a more just society. 

Continue to encourage one another, support one another, listen to one another, and love one another. In closing, NSBE loves you, and your life matters!   


We typically share with you a weekend email update on various COVID-19 related issues. We will send the update on Monday this week. 

I ask instead that we use this weekend to reflect on the horrific events of the past week and specifically on what we as individuals, as a community, and as a nation must do to prevent crimes like this from happening again. What can we do to make things different? 

George Floyd suffered a horrendous and completely unnecessary death. His killing, and those that have come before, demand that we create a different future. This can and must be our task. 

This time, we must act. That starts with dialogue, which I have renewed with key community partners. We must reaffirm our commitment as Buckeyes to our university values of inclusion, diversity and tolerance.

Today, let us also act by reflecting on what’s in our hearts and directing our activities to collaborative efforts to produce lasting change. 
Like many of you, we are deeply saddened by the acts of brutality our country has witnessed in recent days. These images and stories are painful reminders of the persistence of racial tension in our country, and they reaffirm the urgent need to stand in solidarity with our community members of color, especially African American community members.

As Directors within OHIO’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion, we understand the limitations of a statement like this at a time when many in our community are hurting so deeply. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to pose extraordinary challenges, made even more challenging by the images of violence we see flashing across our screens.

At the same time, we know that some of you may derive great benefit from campus resources to support your psychological and emotional well-being. For this reason, we encourage all of you to seek out campus resources that can provide support and encouragement to Ohio University community members. Some of them are highlighted below:

Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS)

CPS provides mental health and adjustment services to students and also consultation to faculty, administrators and parents who support our students.

Psychiatry and individual counseling through face-to-face video conferencing or audio phone therapy are just some of the services available to students through CPS.

Staff members in CPS also make referrals to a wide range of support services both on and off campus. Students may contact CPS at any time by calling 740-593-1616. If calling after hours, press 1 to be connected to a counselor. You can also visit their website at www.ohio.edu/student-affairs/counseling.

IMPACT Student Support Meetings

OHIO students are encouraged to email diversity@ohio.edu to express interest in attending an IMPACT meeting, which is a support group convened for any Ohio University student who wishes to discuss special issues that may be impacting our community of students.

These meetings are facilitated by Dr. Kristyn Neckles, psychologist and embedded clinician for our Division of Diversity and Inclusion, on a by-request basis. 

Employee Assistance Program

Ohio University's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and Work/Life program is offered through Impact Behavioral Healthcare Services.

The EAP is available to all Ohio University employees and their family members.

Visit Impact Employee Assistance (opens in a new window)(opens in a new window)and enter 'ohiouniversity' as the username under the heading Member Login to access informational materials and resources.

Program features include confidential 24/7 live professional assistance (1-800-227-6007) and more.

OHIO’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion remains unwavering in our commitment to offering support and safety so all Bobcats in their diverse identities and experiences can find support for their concerns, worries, and fears.

All staff members in our offices — the LGBT Center, the Multicultural Center, the Office of Multicultural Student Access and Retention/OMSAR, and the Women’s Center — stand ready to offer whatever support we can to our OHIO community as we work together to create a world that is safe, equitable, and compassionate for all. We are here for you - please do not hesitate to reach out to us if we can be of assistance.

In times like these, community is the strongest antidote we have to combat isolation and loneliness. You are not alone!
We are disheartened by the racial injustices in our country & hope justice is swiftly served for the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery & victims of senseless violence. To our Black students/employees—we see you, we hear you, we support you. Your voices matter.
I know our Monarch community joins me in expressing our collective outrage regarding the horrific and senseless killing of George Floyd. We send prayers to his family as well as our hopes that his tragic death will create not just a nationwide conversation, but a commitment from every member of American society to say "No more" to what we observed in Minneapolis or, before that, in Georgia. As a diverse and inclusive campus, we must continue to do our collective best to demonstrate for the world that at Old Dominion University we strive to learn from differences, leading to a greater understanding of one another.

 The primary role of police in America is to provide for the safety of all people by protecting them from criminals and to hold each of us accountable to the law. We expect police to apprehend criminals and work within the legal system to make certain that justice is blind and all are held accountable to the law.

We all have watched in horror videos being replayed over the past week showing the life of George Floyd brutally taken from him by a white police officer in Minneapolis, Minn., while three other officers sworn to uphold the law looked on in indifference. The officer who killed Mr. Floyd was arrested and all four of the officers were fired, but the other three officers simply went home.

Sadly, this horrific event is just the latest in a seemingly endless stream of acts of violence against Black and other people of color by police who are sworn to protect and serve them.

Mr. Floyd’s death comes on the heels of the Feb. 23 fatal shooting of Ahmaud Arbery by armed white residents as he was out jogging in a neighborhood in South Georgia. As well, the March 13 death of Breonna Taylor, who was shot in her Louisville, Ky. home by police. And the reporting to police last week of an African American man threatening a white woman when in fact he was in New York City’s Central Park to watch birds and simply asked her to keep her dog on a leash.

We continually hear speeches and testimonials about how unacceptable and terrible these acts are and how our leaders feel the pain of the Black community. Yet, nothing changes much and we act as if these horrific events are singular or isolated events. But these are not one-offs. They are the product of a failed justice system that perpetuates racism in America and too often a culture of silence within police forces that protects incompetent and hateful people simply because they wear the badge. We are condemned to relive these tragedies unless we make real change a priority throughout this country.

America must be a land of personal and equal freedom, safety and opportunity for all people. And to be certain, the police exist to protect us from predators and not to control us. That attitude should be universal in this country regardless of who we are, where we live or what we look like.

But how can we expect America and all people who live here — including communities of color — to thrive in the midst of such violence and injustice? How many times must we write the same messages expressing our outrage and hurt, sharing our thoughts and prayers for those harmed, and pleading for an end to injustice? How many acts of discrimination, injury and death must occur before our country confronts the realities of the lived experiences of people of color in our society? All of this must stop and that requires action not speeches.

Policing is a local function, but our system of policing requires systematic change across the country. On Monday, I will write the National Governors Association and urge the association and other groups to develop rules, training programs and disciplinary codes for appropriate policing to be enforced throughout America and for unions to step up and support the justice system in weeding out bad officers. Most police are good, dedicated, under-paid and hard working men and women, who risk their lives every day for the well-being of all people. They deserve our thanks and respect and they should not be subject to public scorn because we are incapable of holding some police accountable to the laws of our country and communities simply because they wear a badge.  

As a university community, we must join together to ensure that all members of the OSU community — students, faculty, staff and visitors — not only feel welcomed and safe, but experience our community as a place to thrive. Each and every member of our community must know they are valued, that they belong here, and that we celebrate the rich diversity that they bring to Oregon State University. We should not tolerate anything less. 

Our new police chief, Edgar Rodriguez understands that police must be a community partner that provide a sense of safety in the university and broader community.  As we hire officers for our police force, the Office of Institutional Diversity will continue to provide training to OSU public safety officers on implicit bias, foundations of power, privilege and oppression to ensure that our public safety practices are congruent with OSU’s values regarding inclusivity and opposing oppression. University leaders also will to seek to achieve agreements with police agencies in communities where OSU operates so that we may mutually advance inclusive justice for all people. 

The novel coronavirus pandemic has made all of us look at the inequities in our society. We call people essential workers and yet we systematically pay them less than living wages and deny them critical health care and quality education for themselves and their children, and we act surprised that they are disproportionately vulnerable to death from the COVID-19 pandemic because of pre-existing conditions and that they are disproportionately people of color. When do we get disgusted enough with what we have created and say enough? 

We have a policing problem in America, but it is part of a much deeper and broader failure of this society to live up to the promise of America, which continually eludes us.

As I prepare to step down as university president on June 30, I am confident that our university and the OSU community are in the right hands with incoming president King Alexander. He and I talk often and I know he shares my personal values and leadership commitment to inclusivity, safety and opportunity for all. I know that as OSU’s next president, he will be unwavering in helping advance the work of inclusive justice and opportunity for all that must be part of life within OSU — and across America.  Together with Chief Rodriguez, he will help us move in the right direction in our little part of the world.

In closing, I ask that each of us continue to participate in dialogue, leadership and understanding as we seek to alter the direction of society. I know this will not happen overnight, but by God it needs to happen soon. 
 It has been ten days since the world saw the video of George Floyd dying while a white police officer pressed his knee into Floyd's neck. It has been a week since protests began around the country and across New York, convulsing the city. Yesterday, hundreds if not thousands of New Yorkers gathered in Brooklyn, and then marched across the Brooklyn Bridge past One Pace Plaza, in a moving commemoration of Floyd's life. We join in mourning his loss.
 
During this time, we have been listening to the Pace Community and hearing the pain, anguish, and anger. We are reflecting on our commitments, talking with our Student Government Associations and Black Student Unions, and determining how we can move the University forward while doing more to fight for equality and justice. We know we haven't always gotten it right, and we want to do better.
 
We recognize that Floyd's death is not an isolated case. It has been three and a half months since Ahmaud Arbery was shot and killed while out for a jog; nearly three months since Breonna Taylor was shot and killed by police who'd broken into her apartment; ten days since Tony McDade was shot and killed by police investigating a stabbing. It will soon be 10 years since Danroy "DJ"Henry, a Pace student and football star, was shot and killed by a police officer in Pleasantville. We mourn those losses, too. We know there is much to be done. We are remembering and relearning the words of Angela Davis: "It is not enough to be non-racist, we must be anti-racist."
 
At Pace University, we are committed to being unbiased and anti-racist across our institution.
 
We are committed to hearing from all voices and empowering all parts of our community.
 
We are committed to standing up for what is right.
 
In the last academic year, we hired Pace's first chief diversity officer and established the new Division of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. That Division worked to update our hiring practices to mitigate bias and increase diversity, and it centralized key offices to streamline and focus their important work. There is much, much more to be done.
 
Today, we are committing to the following actions:
 

    We will establish a Presidential Task Force, composed of students, staff, faculty, and alumni and funded by the President's Office, to examine the Pace experience for all in our Community, including those who are Black, those who are brown, and those from other historically underrepresented groups. Under the guidance of the chief diversity officer, in partnership with other campus leaders, and guided by the findings of the forthcoming Diversity Climate Survey, the Presidential Task Force will design a plan with short- and long-term strategies for a more equitable and just Pace University. It will welcome input from all parts of the Pace Community. The Presidential Task Force will be formulated in the coming weeks and will issue its recommendations by the end of fall semester.

 

    We recognize that voices need to be heard and action needs to happen everywhere across the University, and we ask departments and divisions to review their areas to develop long-term commitments for systemic change. These recommendations will be developed by October 1, 2020, and forwarded to the Presidential Task Force for inclusion in the University's comprehensive plan.

 

    We will soon launch a reporting site on which members of the Pace Community can register incidents or experiences contradictory to the inclusive environment we seek to sustain. This site will launch during fall semester. Whether reported on this site or elsewhere, University leaders will always investigate and respond to incidents that are brought to our attention.

 

    In the next week, we will organize a community forum, modeled on this week's session for faculty and staff, in which all members of the Pace Community will be invited to share their experiences and their visions for how Pace can make a difference.

 

    We will design a comprehensive series of programming for the fall semester to examine racial justice in our community and our country, including honoring the memory of DJ Henry as we mark 10 years since his murder.

 
We welcome all in the Pace Community who wish to serve on the Presidential Task Force. Its agenda will not be set by the administration; it will be set by the community. The Presidential Task Force will convene in the coming weeks. If you're interested in serving on it, please contact diversity@pace.edu .
 
We had planned a Diversity Climate Survey for last semester, to capture critical voices and experiences to inform the work of the DEI Division. It will be launched when we return to campus. 
 
Fall programming already in development includes the Our Pledge Against Oppression discussion series, featuring panels on working toward anti-racism and examining race and the prison-industrial complex and a symposium on the absence of Black and Latina/o/x intellectual communities in academia; a teach-in series rooted in critical race theory; a social justice reading club; and the annual MLK lecture.
 
We have also compiled a list of resources to answer the question, "What can I do?"It is available at www.pace.edu/takeaction .
 
We know that this is just a start. But we are committing to do the work, and we will use these first steps as a basis for our future plans. We will have more information for you soon on next week's Zoom meeting, and more detail forthcoming on the Presidential Task Force and fall programming.
 
We have always believed that Pace's strength lies in its community. Despite the many and enormous challenges currently facing us, we still believe that. Let's stand up for each other, listen to each other, and work together to build an even better Pace. 



The tragic circumstances surrounding the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis, following other recent unspeakable tragedies, makes clear yet again that systemic discrimination and unjust racial disparities continue to plague our country. It is past time for change.

We cannot remain silent in the face of this heart-breaking reality. As an institution of higher education, we have an obligation to fight ignorance and intolerance, model inclusivity and embrace the power that diversity represents. 

In the face of hatred and bias, we must speak out. We must not accept apathy, indifference or silence, otherwise we allow hatred, prejudice and intolerance to grow. 

Our message today is, foremost, one of profound compassion for all who live in fear that the color of their skin, gender identity, ethnicity or religion makes them a target of hate. Our hearts ache as we can only imagine the trauma, pain and frustration that many are feeling at this time. 

This message also reaffirms Penn State’s commitment to disrupting hate, bias and racism whenever and wherever we encounter it, and to creating the most inclusive and diverse community that we possibly can – one that is free of discrimination; one that embraces differences; and one that respects all individuals. 

We support our community as you express your sadness and anger through peaceful protest, and we know it is even more challenging to support and lift each other up during this global pandemic, with the added difficulty of social distancing. However, please know that our entire University community grieves with you, supports you and joins with you as we strive for positive change. 

Our country has witnessed with horror the untimely deaths of George Floyd and Ahmaud Arbery, black men whose deaths have come even as we struggle to absorb the disproportionate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on minoritized communities. All around us, people of color are dying at a higher rate, making further visible the structural inequities that pervade every area of the American experience. 

As Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz said, "These are things that have been brewing in this country for 400 years."

It is easy to feel overwhelmed by these events and give in to despair. But we must not give up because we know that inaction supports injustice, inequity and racism. 

We must deepen our work to make our community one where justice and equity are central to who we are. We must work towards equity and justice at Portland State, in Portland, in Oregon, in America, and across the world. It will take intentional and collective action to dismantle systemic structures of oppression. 

We stand with communities in Minnesota and Georgia calling for justice, and we affirm our commitment to doing our own work to ensure that justice and equity are a core part of all of PSU.

Today, and always, black lives matter. 






Leebron: We must act to reduce deadly discrimination and racism
SPECIAL TO RICE NEWS – JUNE 1, 2020
POSTED IN: CURRENT NEWS, FEATURED STORIES


Share23
Rice President David Leebron sent the following message to the university community May 30:

President David Leebron
President David Leebron

We draw many things from being a community. We do things collaboratively. We define and share our values. We take collective joy in our successes. We commiserate when there are reasons for sadness. And we come together in times of crisis and danger.

Over the summer, when our students and also to some extent our faculty are dispersed, the immediate sense of community and our ability to rely on it is diminished. This year that is even more so since our education has been completely online since March. And although our students may still be seeing each other in classes on screens, many of the casual interactions that build our connections to each other no longer take place.

There is of course great sadness sweeping across our world and our country because of the pandemic. Many have lost friends and family members. Many more are living in isolation and under constant threat of danger to their health. Tens of millions have lost their jobs, and collectively our country is facing a level of unemployment and financial distress we have not seen in 90 years. And these burdens have fallen unequally on different communities.

And yet, amid all of that, there is now a deep pang of pain sweeping across America that cries out for recognition, that demands that our voices be heard.

Just three weeks ago I wrote on Twitter about the horrific shooting of Ahmaud Arbery, who was killed while jogging in the coastal city of Brunswick, Georgia, in late February. In mid-March, Breonna Taylor, a young emergency medical technician in Louisville, Kentucky, was killed in her apartment when police entered. And last week, George Floyd was killed in Minneapolis when an arresting officer knelt on his throat for over eight minutes.

pull quote

What these recent cases, and others, have in common is that they all involved victims who were black Americans. Black Americans who were treated as a threat when they weren’t. Black Americans who were treated as if they did not belong in a place when they did. Black Americans who were treated as if they were not a vital part of the fabric of this nation when they have fought and died and sacrificed for it as much as any others. Black Americans who were killed when the circumstances provided no justification.

There is anger and pain and fear across America, not because these are new things to deal with, but because they aren’t. Last fall, for example, Atatiana Jefferson, a young Xavier University graduate working in the pharmaceutical industry, was killed by a police officer who entered her home in Fort Worth, Texas, without identifying himself. The names of these victims are seared in our memories.

For the most part, I write to the campus about events only when they directly involve Rice, and usually when our campus is in session. But occasionally, external events, nearby or far away, are such that they reach deeply into our community and especially affect a valued part of the Rice community. And so although we are currently dispersed and these incidents did not directly involve members of the Rice community, we must acknowledge that these events cause pain and fear to a vital part of our community. It is a pain and fear that many of us have trouble even imagining. Even in the middle of a global pandemic, it is a deep and enduring pain and fear that deserves acknowledgment and caring, and recognition that we must do better.

We must therefore join with our own expressions of concern and sympathy and outrage. We must work to build an inclusive environment, one that respects and values people from different backgrounds. We must take part in efforts to reduce the deadly discrimination and racism that is an unstaunched wound in our national fabric.

And so I write today to convey on behalf of the Rice community, to all of our community, and most especially to the black members of our community, that we acknowledge the sorrow and the fear and the pain. And that we know as a university and as individuals we must contribute to healing that wound.











As an organization committed to being a voice for the under-represented, SHPE denounces all racism. We wholeheartedly support equality and enthusiastically stand with everyone who is committed to diversity, respect, and justice
Even as this flashpoint in the struggle for racial justice unfolds primarily in the US, ours is a global community. Some struggles are more visible in certain geographies over others, owing to histories of oppression, but we fully recognize that members of our community worldwide are faced with a long list of systemic injustices. The task that lies before us is one of weaving equity, inclusion, and solidarity into each of our scholarly and professional activities, so that "diversity and inclusion" are not add-ons, but deeply integrated into our every practice, whether it involves conference processes, volunteering responsibilities, or global community support mechanisms.
Within SIGCHI, we care deeply about addressing discrimination of all kinds. We are committed to bringing down barriers to equal participation — in our community and the many worlds in which we work, but we must do better. It is not enough to not be racist; we must be anti-racist. With this in mind the SIGCHI Executive Committee (EC) is committing to taking the following steps to confront racism and other forms of discrimination and structural inequity.
    Listen and Reflect: We will identify avenues for our community members to share their experiences, observations, and suggestions around representation and existing practices, so that we can all listen actively, reflect, and learn. We will work together with those whose ability to participate is impacted, to identify ways of amplifying these voices. We will organize dialogues with our members so we all may strengthen our approaches to identifying and addressing prevalent forms of discrimination, racial and otherwise.
    Act Locally: Relying on lessons learned through active listening, we will communicate practices for our community to engage and adopt in personal and professional arenas, including in SIGCHI conferences, events, and publications.
        Represent: We will conduct a systematic review of formal SIGCHI policies and regular practices to examine how best we can respond to bias and bring down barriers that obstruct equal participation for any number of reasons. Specifically, we will take a deeper look at our conferences, volunteering, and community support offerings, to assess how our community may be better represented.
Based on our active listening, the SIGCHI EC will identify recommendations by the end of September, report these to the SIGCHI community in writing, and discuss them in a (virtual) town hall before the end of 2020. We will then begin the work towards integrating these short- and long-term recommendations into SIGCHI policies and practices. Throughout this process, we will be transparent and accountable across the SIGCHI community as we work to achieve our long-term commitments.
We are grateful for the initiative that many in our community have taken in these difficult times, to raise voices against deep injustice and extend support to others affected. Still, we urge our membership — those who are able — to reflect individually and together on the ways in which systemic racism and other systems of domination manifest to threaten the principles of equity and inclusion we espouse as a community. Whether it is in our research activities, our industry jobs, or our classrooms, how might we take on the responsibility of initiating the hard conversations? And of creating the safe spaces in which these conversations may have impact? Our search for justice inevitably ties us together as humans; now is the moment for each one of us to ask — how can we move forward together, in solidarity, to effect deep, systemic change?


SFU Stands in Solidarity Against Racism: Statement from the President
June 02, 2020
Recent incidents of anti-Black violence and discrimination in Canada and the United States provide a disturbing reminder of the prevalence of racism within our societies, and have caused much pain, anger and distress for Black students, faculty and staff.

Despite our commitments to human rights, universities like SFU are not immune to anti-Black and anti-Asian racism, nor to discrimination directed against Indigenous peoples.

Only a few weeks ago, I condemned the anti-Asian racism seen in our communities and spoke of our shared obligation to oppose racial discrimination in all its forms.

The events of recent days add further urgency to this cause. Racism has no place in our society, and we have a responsibility not only to condemn discriminatory behaviour, but also to take action to support inclusion for all.

At SFU, this starts with acknowledging the role we play in perpetuating systemic discrimination, and accepting that we have work to do to ensure that our ideals for a just society are reflected in our own practices, policies and procedures.

To this end, last year we appointed an executive team led by Dr. Joy Johnson to develop an action plan to advance equity, diversity and inclusion across the university. Supported by a pan-university advisory council, the group’s mandate is to eliminate systemic barriers and inequities in access, admissions, recruitment, career development, pay, working and learning conditions, resources, retention and progression.
While that work, including data gathering, is underway, we have much more to learn and much more to do. SFU leadership is committed to growth and change, and I am grateful to many for the part they are playing in building a university community where all feel included.

For students, faculty and staff who experience grief, trauma and/or stress resulting from racism and violence, support is available:

Equity, Diversity and Inclusion help and support: https://www.sfu.ca/edi/support.html
Students: Health & Counselling Services 778-782-4615 and our free, 24/7 mental health support program, mySSP. More information on these and other mental health supports here.
Faculty and all staff: Employee and Family Assistance Program:  Homewood Health 1-800-663-1142
Interfaith Centre: 778-782-3180
 
I have been heartened, as I have said many times in recent weeks, by the energy and commitment that SFU students, faculty and staff have shown to keep our community safe from the threat of COVID-19. Let us now apply that same energy and commitment to ensuring that our community is safe from the threat of racism and discrimination.

It’s all of our responsibility to combat racism, but none more so than those of us who have benefited from white privilege.







The events of the last several weeks have left us with a profound sense of grief, anger, and weariness, but also resolve. We grieve with the family and friends of George Floyd, who was killed by the police in Minneapolis. We grieve with countless other families, including those of Ahmaud Arbery, João Pedro Mattos Pinto, and Breonna Taylor, whose loved ones died senseless and inexplicable deaths at the hands of police officers around the globe.
We are angry at the police officers, their supervisors, and public leaders who allow these actions to continue.
We have grown weary from these reports, coming on the heels of the COVID scourge which has affected us all but especially the very same groups that have been targeted by police officers.
But we are resolved. To prevent the senseless deaths of African Americans at the hands of police and the systematic racism and oppression of people of color, we must transform our anger and grief and resolve to act. We must act at every level.
As leaders of a scientific organization that cares deeply about children, we lean into the research that consistently documents the long-lasting negative effects that discrimination, oppression, racism, and implicit bias have on children. We must discover ways to support families and communities in raising children to become peaceful and tolerant citizens.
We must hold our leaders accountable. Today, leaders at the highest levels are sowing division and racism instead of bringing healing and unity.
We must raise up the voices of unity, accountability, and healing that our nation needs. We need to elevate the voices of youth. Through evidence-based programs, we need to equip them for civic engagement and leadership that will bring about the changes that society needs. We need to stand behind and support youth in creating a better future.
Importantly, we must hold ourselves accountable. As members of the Society for Research in Child Development, we must ask ourselves what we can do in our teaching, our research, and our academic work to bring about the needed changes in our society.
At times like this, we must examine our own beliefs, values, and goals. At SRCD, integrating racial, cultural, and economic diversity into the spheres of developmental science is a central strategic goal. We will continue to promote research that illuminates the lived experiences of children of color, especially in these times of increased oppression and racism. SRCD can be counted on to act based on evidence.
Finally, SRCD builds capacity, as a strategic goal. We will raise up the next generation of researchers, inform policymakers, and equip practitioners in ways that lead to healing the broken-hearted, building bridges across the partisan divides, and advancing developmental science to improve human lives -- #WokeScientist.
We cannot do this alone. We must do this in community and in collaboration. SRCD Commons has been created to grow our sense of community. There are portals for members to communicate with each other for support and information. SRCD is hosting chats, webinars, and virtual meetings with parents of children to offer counsel and support.
Let us commit. Never again.



At the heart of the STARS Computing Corps is a commitment to equity and inclusion in computing. We condemn racism. We will continue to incorporate anti-racist frameworks to guide our work for institutional change. We stand with #BlackLivesMatter






The amount of pain and suffering we are witnessing and feeling is only a snapshot of a broader social reality. We, and everyone before us, have had a role in arriving at where we are today. As such, it is of paramount importance to step up and take a stance. It is our responsibility and a moral imperative to not stand by and simply witness the events around us. We must collectively find our voice and reject racism and inequality. Silence perpetuates, doubt reinforces, and rationalization of incident after incident only compounds the pain so many in our society continue to endure.

While CRA has a long history of celebrating, promoting, and advocating for inclusivity, we cannot be satisfied with continuing the status quo. We will continue to actively stand against discrimination and hatred. We will find new ways to use our voice in Washington to advocate for policies that address the inequities that exist in our field. We will amplify the efforts of our membership organizations wherever we can to help them improve the spaces they occupy and create an environment that is more welcoming, just, and equitable to all. Only together can we begin to right the long history of wrongs that have led us to this place and time.

We start with acknowledging the issues by talking to those around us and explicitly stating that we stand with them when they stand against discrimination and hatred.

We know that racism:

    Is systemic and institutionalized, was intentionally designed, and established well before the foundation of our nation.
    Continues to oppress people of color around the world – denying basic human rights, denying opportunity, and even more tragically denying many of their very lives.
    Is learned behavior that may be unlearned through education, compassion, empathy, and action.
    Drives a wedge between communities, and in doing so limits the enviable quest for a society steeped in respect.
    The privileged benefit from its existence and must be willing to sacrifice to overcome it.
    Lives in our homes, schools, workplaces, parks, churches, stores, amusement parks, government, law enforcement – it lives in us all to varying degrees.

To stand against it, we:

    Acknowledge the existence of racism within our communities and commit to defeating it.
    Call out and reject rationalization of incidents and distortion of information.
    Educate ourselves and those around us to be better equipped to address racism in its many forms.
    Stand up against the status quo by using our voice and agency.
    Commit to systemic change in laws, policies, procedures, etc.
    Dedicate all necessary resources to create lasting change
The Society of Women Engineers is angered and saddened by the recent events in Minneapolis that led to the death of George Floyd.  As an organization we vehemently denounce racism!  Systemic racism faced by those of color in our communities across the United States has become all too familiar.  We must stand together to demand justice and work together to turn our pain into purpose.  Nothing will change if those outside the impacted communities stand by and do nothing.  We must be true allies, standing shoulder to shoulder, asking the tough questions of our civic leaders.

To support the increased participation of women and minorities in engineering, SWE became a founding member of the 50K Coalition.  Since 2015, together with the American Indian Science and Engineering Society  (AISES), the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), we have been working together, using the collective impact model, to increase the numbers of engineering graduates from underrepresented populations to 50,000 by 2025.  Moreover, we have Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with the above-mentioned groups supporting initiatives like joint membership, research and public policy.  This year we are working on additional agreements with NOGLSTP, oSTEM and SASE.

We also recognize that as an organization we have our own work to do. The lack of visible diversity in our leadership is palpable.  For the past several years, SWE leadership has focused on creating a more welcoming and inclusive environment within the Society.  While our efforts may not always achieve the goals we have set forth, we cannot hope to accomplish those goals if we do not actively focus on them.  And we acknowledge that as an organization we still have a lot of work to do. 

As an organization we are committed to our diversity and inclusion principles:

    Developing women in engineering across socio economic strata and occupational focus
    Encouraging interest in and active participation of women and girls of underrepresented groups including (but not limited to) African-American, Asian, Hispanic, Pacific Islanders and Native Americans
    Supporting women and respecting their differences in family status, sexual orientation, sexual identity, age and physical ability
    Work collaboratively with men to confront gender bias and create a more inclusive engineering community

This year our SWE Senate has convened a sub-team to address the lack of diversity within our leadership pipeline.  And that work will continue in the next fiscal year.  We want to be solutions-driven.  Our KPI metric dashboard tracks the diversity demographics of both our membership and our leadership. Details will be shared on swe.org and in the State of SWE conducted every spring. We are holding ourselves accountable and we expect our members and partners to hold us accountable as well.

SWE is a place for women of all backgrounds to come together and share unique perspectives and advance both themselves and the field of engineering.

To our diverse members and every woman of color in STEM fields, your voice is important. We want to reiterate that we are an inclusive organization and we need you in order to increase representation in all levels of our profession and SWE leadership. 

Message to Our Community
Saturday, May 30, 2020, By News StaffShare
To the Syracuse University Community,

We write to you in the midst of tremendous pain, sorrow, anger and concern. From scenes in Minnesota, Georgia, New York and beyond, we have witnessed horrific images reminding us that the sting of racism and systemic injustice is real.

Each act of discrimination and violence carries with it a significant and sustained impact, especially among those targeted. George Floyd is a visceral and painful reminder of the unique ways many of us—students, faculty, staff and alumni—have experienced discrimination and violence. We are clearly in the midst of troubled times, and while civic and law enforcement authorities bear a particular responsibility, we of Syracuse University are now presented with a collective and crucial opportunity.

We recognize the hate and terror that continues to infect each and every corner of our country and world. To face such truth requires compassion. We also witness the tremendous goodness found within our diverse campus community, and we fully believe in our capacity to create and sustain our common good.

The challenges before us might seem impossible to overcome, and we are all far from perfect. Our response must meet the importance of this moment, to build communities where hate and intolerance are not just condemned and rejected, but eliminated. We are now called upon to embody our values and embrace each other. We must choose—through our words, thoughts and deeds—to emerge as a stronger and more just community.

We grieve for the families who have lost loved ones and for those who are suffering. It is simply not enough to try to imagine what others are going through. We must have the respect and resolve to do something about it. When we engage one another with kindness and compassion, we are working to ensure the dignity and worth of all.

While distanced around the world, we in the Orange Community can bind together and act together, for the sake of our world.

With hope,

Kent Syverud, Chancellor and President
Keith A. Alford, Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer
The Rev. Brian Konkol, Dean of Hendricks Chapel

To the Temple community: 

Recently, we have watched the horrific accounts of the deaths of George Floyd in Minnesota, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. Temple joins those who oppose racial oppression and are actively working toward racial equity. Our university was built on the idea that the world is filled with diamonds and these diamonds can be found anywhere and everywhere regardless of race, ethnicity or socio-economic background. As an educational institution, Temple promotes critical thinking and peaceful and purposeful activism. We join with leaders in the Philadelphia region in condemning violence that harms others and destroys property.

Last week, students, faculty and staff were invited to take part in programming and support services designed to help the Temple community process and constructively respond to this difficult season in our shared history. This programming will continue, led by Temple's Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership (IDEAL). We invite you to join with IDEAL for an "Envisioning Racial Justice" webinar to be held Tuesday, June 2. IDEAL regularly shares recommendations of books, articles and other valuable resources, like How To Be An Antiracist by Ibram X. Kendi. Not only is Dr. Kendi a National Book Award-winning and No. 1 New York Times Bestselling Author, he is a Temple Owl, having received his doctorate in African American Studies in 2010. Follow @templediversity for the most up-to-date recommendations and information about additional events.

If you believe you have been the victim of racial discrimination or harassment, please contact the university's EOC office, the focal point of Temple's institutionwide efforts for equal opportunity, equal access and affirmative action. Tuttleman Counseling Services and the Employee Assistance Program also remain available to support you as we face these challenges.

We have every confidence we will navigate this difficult time together.

Richard M. Englert
President

JoAnne A. Epps
Executive Vice President and Provost
Dear TSU Family, Tennessee State University shares the pain of those mourning the loss of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We also share that same anguish, sadness and outrage for the other black men and women across the country who are victims of police brutality because of the color of their skin. Our hearts ache for them and their loved ones, and also for the city that we call home. Nashville has had to endure the seemingly unimaginable this year. The decimation of deadly tornadoes; the physical, mental and economic impact of a pandemic; and now a peaceful rise against injustice that turned violent. While TSU does not condone the violence that erupted during the recent protests in Nashville and nationally, the university sternly and unequivocally opposes injustice and racism. Our institution has a rich history in the civil rights movement, as well as the modern-day movement. Many of our former students helped integrate Nashville's lunch counters, a historic moment in the city's history. Today, our students, from around the country and here in Nashville, are leaders in their communities fighting for change. We must seize this opportunity to continue the dialogue to demand fair and equitable treatment for all Americans, for all Nashvillians. Dear TSU Family, Tennessee State University shares the pain of those mourning the loss of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We also share that same anguish, sadness and outrage for the other black men and women across the country who are victims of police brutality because of the color of their skin. Our hearts ache for them and their loved ones, and also for the city that we call home. Nashville has had to endure the seemingly unimaginable this year. The decimation of deadly tornadoes; the physical, mental and economic impact of a pandemic; and now a peaceful rise against injustice that turned violent. While TSU does not condone the violence that erupted during the recent protests in Nashville and nationally, the university sternly and unequivocally opposes injustice and racism. Our institution has a rich history in the civil rights movement, as well as the modern-day movement. Many of our former students helped integrate Nashville's lunch counters, a historic moment in the city's history. Today, our students, from around the country and here in Nashville, are leaders in their communities fighting for change. We must seize this opportunity to continue the dialogue to demand fair and equitable treatment for all Americans, for all Nashvillians.
A Statement from President Oldham

Published Tuesday Jun 2, 2020
MEDIA RESOURCES
Our nation continues to be marred by injustice, racism, and violence. We observe recent events, that we have seen all too often, that threaten our ability to live with respect for each other.  The unwarranted death of George Floyd should never be forgotten.  I am saddened and struck with the overwhelming belief that we, as a nation, are better than this.

As a university community, we must take a stand and remain committed to our core values of inclusion, respect, kindness, and tolerance toward all.  Our students will be forever shaped by our words, actions, and response to the inexcusable treatment of people of color we have witnessed. 

At Tennessee Tech, we will be a safe place for African American students, faculty and staff. I ask you to hear their voices and pray that all of us will be granted an extra measure of God’s wisdom, grace, tolerance, and patience as we listen to each other and stand beside one another.

RETURN TO NEWS ROOM
The Texas A&M System condemns all racist behaviors, actions, and comments that tear at the moral fabric of our nation. The System is appalled at the deplorable and egregious acts of brutality by some police officers against African Americans. As the nation grieves, the A&M System is also experiencing sorrow and has devoted its platform to stand up against unjust racial disparities.

Based on diversity as a core value of our system, we denounce all forms of violence perpetrated against African Americans. The death of George Floyd, and many others, at the hand of police officers is a despicable and unacceptable outcome. Suffice it to say: IT MUST STOP. All forms of racism, from bias and micro-aggressions to racialized violence, create an undue weight on our faculty, staff, students of color, and administration. As such, there is a direct need to continue to educate and act on our values of inclusion and equity.

The Texas A&M System shall take all necessary steps to ensure that its employees and students are committed to the tenets of human respect and decency. To make a positive impact, we will make a unified commitment to translate our ideals into action for sustainable and proactive change. Equally as important, The Texas A&M System shall remain committed to providing an inclusive environment where all its members can thrive safely.

The A&M System believes all universities under the auspices of the Texas A&M Banner shall speak out against systemic and institutional racism at all levels. Likewise, we urgently call on all Texans and the nation to resist hateful and racist actions and refuse to drink from the bitter cup of divisiveness.

Dr. LaVelle Hendricks, Chair, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Angela Allen, West Texas A&M University
Dr. Carol Bunch Davis, Texas A&M University-Galveston
Larry Davis, Texas A&M University-Central Texas
Dr. Toney Favors, Texas A&M University-Texarkana
Dr. Manuel Flores, Texas A&M University-Kingsville
Elma De Luna-Gonzalez, Prairie View A&M University
Tim Gritten, Texas A&M University-San Antonio
Dr. Peter Haruna, Texas A&M International University
Dr. Lince Tiburcio, Tarleton University
Dr. Sherdeana Owens, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Dr. Christine Stanley, Texas A&M University
Dr. Julia Ballenger, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Joyce Miller, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Minita Ramirez, Texas A&M International University
Carl Greig, Texas A&M University-Texarkana
Dr. Corinne Valadez, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Dr. Jennifer Schroeder, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Brenda Moore, Texas A&M University-Commerce


Dear Texas Tech University family,
We have all been affected and saddened by the tragic and violent events in Minneapolis,
Minnesota. The events have brought to mind difficult and complex questions about racism
and justice. For some of our fellow students, faculty, and employees, what happened to
George Floyd feels like it could happen to them too.
That requires all of us to have an extra measure of compassion and understanding as we
move forward. Take time to listen to one another, to have the hard conversations and
uncomfortable exchanges. It is precisely those dialogues that strengthen the sense of
community that is an essential part of our university.
I want to reaffirm Texas Tech's unwavering commitment to a welcoming environment for all.
Many ethnicities are proudly represented on this campus, and our students are drawn from all
50 states and more than one hundred countries. That is a great strength, but it also means that
all of us—the administration, faculty, employees, and students alike—must treat every
person in this community with the respect and compassion they deserve. That is our bedrock
standard, and no matter our background, our bond as Red Raiders unifies us in a common
cause and in our responsibility to one another.
This past spring, the University held a series of dialogues about race relations on campus,
and that work has never felt more urgent. We intend to continue these efforts in the year
ahead and I also want to call attention to the many resources that are here for students,
faculty, staff, and administrators in the meantime. We have first-rate health and counseling
services to support you and additional educational resources and programs are provided
through the Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, and the Center for Campus Life. We
will work with colleagues across the Texas Tech University System, the Athletics
Department, the Texas Tech Police Department, as well as with our elected officials and
civic leaders here in Lubbock, to ensure your safety and well-being.
We are all Red Raiders, and we are all dedicated to a University that celebrates diversity and
draws strength from it. Following the closures of this spring, we aim to return to campus as
unified as ever. That's the Texas Tech way. And it reflects our most deeply held values of
respect, inclusion, compassion, and mutual concern.
We look forward to being able to resume our campus life, and I wish all of you the best in the
weeks and months to come.
Sincerely,
Lawrence Schovanec
President
Texas Tech University


TTIC's Mission Statement says: "TTIC is committed to the values of human freedom, dignity, prosperity, and diversity." President Turk confirmed in an internal mail to the TTIC community on Tuesday that the Institute is firmly committed to those values, and supports those demanding an end to intolerance, discrimination, marginalization, and bigotry. Racism and discrimination have devastating effects on society. Silence plays a key role in upholding and supporting narratives that contribute to systems of oppression and injustice.

The recent killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery, along with too many others, have caused profound new grief and adversely affect our lives and the lives of those we care about in significant ways. We must individually and collectively reflect on the lives lost unnecessarily, and the systemic problems and challenges we all face as a society. The unnecessary race-based killings and violence must end.
Community Message on Racial Injustice
Sunday, May, 31st, 2020 President's Desk Speeches and Messages

May 31, 2020

Dear members of the Tufts University community,

This spring has been a difficult one for our entire community, as all of our lives have taken turns that were inconceivable just months ago. But it is important to recognize that we have not all been challenged in the same ways. The coronavirus pandemic, with its disproportionate impact on the health and economic status of communities of color, has revealed, once again, the deep disparities that continue to exist in our nation. And the recent acts of violence against Black people demonstrate, once again, the racism and injustice that persist in our society.

I recognize that I have the privilege of being able to go for a jog or put on a mask without fearing that my skin color will make me a target. Not all members of our society—and our Tufts community—enjoy such privilege. To our Black students, faculty, staff and alumni, please know that I stand with you in demanding these injustices stop.

As a community, we want to come together, share our pain, and find a way to be a part of the solution. But we are currently separated around the world. I hope we can use our distance as a strength, rather than a barrier. Let’s work to improve the communities in which we find ourselves today and hope that by our actions, we can begin to knit this nation together.

I hope you will stay safe and support one another during these difficult times.

Best wishes,

Tony Monaco

A MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT LILY D. McNAIR "Dear Students, Alumni, Colleagues and Friends:


This past week, we have all experienced a range of emotions after viewing the horrific and senseless murder of George Floyd at the hands of law enforcement officials. As a mother, wife and president of Tuskegee University with more than 2,800 students – of which 35% are male – I am concerned about your safety and futures. While Black males have been the most obvious targets of police brutality and mistreatment, I am equally distressed about the fate of Black women who have increasingly suffered from similar miscarriages of justice.


I have a particularly heightened sense of concern for your safety and general well-being during these trying times. After watching the weekend protests occurring in major cities in the country, my heart sank again as I saw the video of two students from our sister institutions of Morehouse College and Spelman College who were forcibly removed from their vehicle and tasered by Atlanta police without obvious provocation. The death of George Floyd and these subsequent protests have exposed the troubling state of our country on many fronts – including racial disparities, social injustices, and economic inequalities that disproportionately affect the poor and people of color. Although many of you may choose to participate in these protests, I ask that you be mindful of the notable cause of peaceful protests. 


You are an important part of my family, so I ask that you stay safe. We will be working with student leaders and others over the coming days and weeks to engage in action-oriented solutions focused on anti-racism, peace, equality, and social justice reform. Join the Division of Student Affairs on Thursday, June 4, at 8:00 p.m. central time on Zoom for ""Know Peace, Know Justice: A Safety and Mental Health Discussion."" The Zoom link will be sent separately and posted on social media.


Stay safe. Stay focused. Know that we will get through this together.


Sincerely,
 
Lily D. McNair, Ph.D.
President"

Minneapolis, Louisville, Atlanta
Published May 30, 2020

Dear university community,

At the University at Buffalo, we believe that intolerance, hatred and institutional racism have no place in our community or our nation. That is precisely why our university—in principle and in practice—has deliberately cultivated a diverse, inclusive community grounded in respect for each other’s humanity.
 
As a university community, we are deeply saddened by the lives senselessly taken in Minneapolis, Atlanta and Louisville. As we watch neighborhoods and cities consumed by destruction and chaos, we mourn peacefully but not passively.
 
Instead, with unwavering compassion, let us lift our voices together and, as one, pledge that all people—regardless of race or gender—be afforded a life of liberty, equality, opportunity and dignity.

Sincerely,
 
Satish K. Tripathi
President


Important Message from UAB Leaders
by Tyler Greer
June 01, 2020 Print Email
UAB Community,

Integrity, respect, accountability, diversity and inclusiveness are shared values of our institution and are at the core of what it means to be a UAB Blazer. Everybody counts every day. The students, faculty and staff who comprise our richly diverse and inclusive campus — and take pride in living these values — are hurting, along with our community and country.

The senseless murder of George Floyd — fueled by racism and hate — is tragic, unacceptable and not isolated. The recent abhorrent killings of Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery show a disturbing pattern and are proof that an intentional focus on the values we espouse as members of the UAB community are needed now. These incidents have continued to surface as we navigate the COVID-19 pandemic, which has highlighted the systemic health disparities in African American and Latinx communities consistently addressed by leadership in our School of Medicine, as well as uneven enforcement of social distancing executive orders and anti-Asian bias. 

Nothing we can say can heal the deep pain and fear in our community. But we can recognize injustice and actively and purposefully live for integrity, respect, accountability, diversity and inclusiveness every day. Do not let your concern subside. Be a difference for positive change.

We are proud of and affirm our student government association's condemnation of these tragedies and its message encouraging fellow students to take actions beyond words with "donations, signing petitions, safely attending protests, and exercising your civic duties."

There are many opportunities to get involved. We encourage all of our students, faculty and staff to learn more about and seek the resources and programming offered by UAB's Student Multicultural and Diversity Programs and Office of Diversity Equity and Inclusion. 

Self-care is important in times like these. If you need them, utilize the free counseling services UAB offers through Student Counseling Servicesand the Employee Assistance Counseling Center.

Please take care of yourself and each other.

Sincerely,

Ray L. Watts, President

Pam Benoit, Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost

Allen Bolton, Senior Vice President for Finance and Administration

Selwyn Vickers, Senior Vice President for Medicine and Dean, School of Medicine

Jim Bakken, Interim Chief Communications Officer

Shannon Blanton, Dean, Honors College

Tom Brannan, Vice President for Advancement

Jennifer Breland, President, Staff Council

Chris Brown, Vice President for Research

Andrew Butler, Dean, School of Health Professions

Curt Carver, Vice President for Information Technology/Chief Information Officer

Autumn Cypres, Dean, School of Education

Paulette Dilworth, Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Paul Erwin, Dean, School of Public Health

Will Ferniany, CEO, UAB Health System

Kasia Gonnerman, Dean, Libraries

Doreen Harper, Dean, School of Nursing

Ria Hearld, Chair, Faculty Senate

Mark Ingram, Director of Athletics

Eric Jack, Dean, School of Business

Alesia Jones, Chief Human Resources Officer

John Jones, Vice President for Student Affairs 

Lori McMahon, Dean, Graduate School

Kelly Nichols, Dean, School of Optometry

Kathy Nugent, Executive Director, Harbert Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship

Rosie O'Beirne, Interim Associate Vice President for Digital Strategy and Marketing

Robert Palazzo, Dean, College of Arts and Sciences

Russell Taichman, Dean, School of Dentistry

Tim Wick, Interim Dean, School of Engineering 

UA Little Rock Stands with Students, Faculty, and Staff
JUNE 2, 2020

Trojan Family,

This is a difficult time for our country as we struggle with the harmful effects of racism. We grieve with the families of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and so many others. I want you to know that UA Little Rock stands against racism and hate and stands with those who support social justice and equality.

As an institution, we are not immune to issues of inequity and intolerance. Particularly with regard to issues of race and ethnicity, we have not done enough. While we still have much room for improvement, we are committed to doing the work that is required of us to ensure we provide members of our campus community with the space and support to operate authentically in their identity, free from harassment and disrespect.

I know there are members of our campus community, especially those who identify as African American, who are in great pain at this time as you struggle to process this latest tragedy, while navigating the enduring systems of discrimination that you face in your day-to-day life. We want you to know that you have a place at UA Little Rock, and it is important that we continue to work together to ensure the safety and well-being of every member of our campus community. We are here for you and we care for you. You matter.

I am committed to making sure that every member of our campus community is valued, respected, and celebrated–we are stronger together.

Christina S. Drale
Chancellor


Together against Racism and Injustice
June 1, 2020

Dear UBC community:

Recent anti-Black and anti-Asian violence in communities across North America has focused our attention on the deeply rooted racism in Canada and globally.  UBC itself is not immune to racism and injustice.

As a university, we need to make it crystal clear that racism and bias have no place in our community and that we have zero tolerance for it.

On behalf of the University, I condemn and denounce all incidents of anti-Black and anti-Asian racism and the continued racism and oppression that is directed at Indigenous communities. We must work together to dismantle the tools of oppression and white supremacy that remain prevalent and entrenched in our everyday systems.  It is my hope that at least here at UBC, we can work to model a different kind of community – one where we embrace difference and work to build each other up while enacting values of dignity, mutual respect, and justice.

Deeply connected to the wider region, and benefiting from the privilege of being on unceded land, UBC must be responsive to the needs of our wider community and committed to advancing the understanding of equity, diversity, and inclusion. As a public sector institution, we have an obligation and commitment towards the public good; and as a place of learning and engagement, we are uniquely positioned to generate and mobilize knowledge that can transform systems of oppression and support emerging leaders that can help shape not only our campus, but workplaces and communities beyond our campuses. As such we will be organizing a series of public engagements focused on anti-racism.

As the President of UBC, I reaffirm our institutional commitment to inclusion and call for the acceleration and intensification of efforts to build a more inclusive campus community.  Over the coming weeks, I will

Ensure adequate resources to implement the goals and actions of the Inclusion Action Plan.
Meet with the Black Caucus and the Asian Canadian Community Engagement Group.
Support the diversification of the professoriate through the allocation of President’s Excellence Chairs to Black and Indigenous faculty members.
Support identity-based spaces and organizations and ensure that they continue to receive the funding they need.
Fulfill commitments within the Inclusion Action Plan for the recruitment, retention and support of Black students, staff, and faculty.
Ensure that all our public safety officers and other authority figures are adequately trained to eliminate any unconscious or implicit bias.
Endeavour to diversify our community at every level through defined programs.
As recommended by the External review of the Equity & Inclusion Office, establish a dotted line reporting relationship to the Associate Vice President, Equity & Inclusion.
I will also be working closely with members of our administration, the Associate Vice President, Equity & Inclusion, and relevant committees and groups to assess and look at ways that we can enhance our efforts to build a more inclusive campus. We will host a  virtual town hall to elevate voices that are traditionally silenced in our institution and to monitor progress.

At UBC, diversity is our strength – inclusion of different perspectives and experiences is critical to the wellbeing of our community and the individual and collective pursuit of excellence. We can play a role against hatred, oppression, violence and injustice and find a way to support and elevate those who have been traditionally, systemically, and historically marginalized.

I encourage you to think about the role you can play in fighting racism and with that I urge you to read this post on solidarity and anti-racist action from our colleagues at the Equity & Inclusion Office.

If you are in need of support with respect to your wellbeing, please contact UBC Counselling Services or EFAP, explore some ways for self-care, and if you feel that you have faced discrimination while working or studying at UBC, please contact our human rights team. This post on sustainable self-care may also be useful.

On a personal note, I say to racialized students and colleagues at UBC: this is not the first time in history that you have experienced heightened stigmatization and racism. You are strong and resilient and will thrive in the face of this as you have done throughout history. Please don’t let racism cloud your spirit. Go and be the brilliant minds and compassionate hearts that you are, and continue to shine at UBC. You belong here.

If you think there is more UBC can do, I want to hear from you at presidents.office@ubc.ca.

Santa J. Ono
President and Vice-Chancellor

Letter to the UBC Community

A message from campus leaders: Standing together
MAY 29, 2020


EmailPrint
Chancellor Carol Christ and Oscar Dubón, Jr., vice chancellor for equity and inclusion, sent the following message to the campus community on Friday:

While we all profoundly feel the suffering and loss related to COVID-19—suffering and loss visited disproportionately on those who are Black, indigenous, people of color, and poor—we are appalled by the racist killings of recent weeks. We write to express our outrage; we stand in steadfast solidarity with our Black community; and we offer heartfelt condolences to the loved ones of the victims of the racially-motivated violence that is taking place in various communities across America. Unchecked violence at the hands of police and civilians requires our – and all of society's – urgent attention.

As a campus community, we stand with the family of Ahmaud Arbery, who was murdered while jogging in Georgia by two white men. We stand with Christian Cooper, who was the victim of a woman's attempt to use the police as a weapon against him while he pursued his passion for birdwatching in New York's Central Park. We stand with the loved ones of Breonna Taylor, an essential worker during this pandemic who was killed in her home by police. We stand against the senseless killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis by a police officer who knelt on his neck, while three others watched and assisted, as Mr. Floyd choked out the same final words of another slain Black man, Eric Garner: "I can't breathe."

Let us say their names, acknowledge their humanity, and commit to doing what we can to build a more just society.

Let us also acknowledge that while these names and incidents made their way into the national news and discourse, they are not by any means isolated, nor is the racism that underlies them.

According to Rutgers University Sociologist Frank Edwards, one out of every 1,000 Black men in America will be killed by a police officer. This makes them two and half times more likely than white men to die during encounters with officers.

Less noticed by the mainstream media but equally important to elevate are Black women, gender non-conforming and trans people who have been murdered in recent weeks and months.

We must call out and hold accountable our broken structures, build bridges that will lead to mutual understanding and respect across differences, and work to create a future in which we can all thrive, especially in these most challenging times. This work must happen across the nation – and it must happen on a local level as well.

We acknowledge the grief, anger, sadness, helplessness, and outrage that these killings create in our community. Let us channel those feelings toward a commitment to each others' wellness. If you would like support, please contact UC Berkeley Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). Counselors are available for phone and video counseling appointments. There are also new online self-help tools. Visit the CAPS website, call Counseling and Psychological Services at (510) 642-9494, or, when the Tang Center is closed, call the after-hours counseling line (855) 817-5667. CAPS employs mental health professionals trained to provide support to individuals from a wide array of identities, including traditionally marginalized or disenfranchised groups.

In addition, Be Well at Work – Employee Assistance provides free confidential counseling and referrals for our faculty, staff, visiting scholars, and postdocs. To schedule an appointment with an Employee Assistance counselor, please contact (510) 643-7754 or email employeeassistance@berkeley.edu.

Finally, please be aware of the following resources:

Student Organizations: Our campus has numerous and diverse student organizations that students may wish to get involved in. You can explore at callink.berkeley.edu.
Centers for Educational Justice & Community Engagement: These centers provide space, programs, and services for Berkeley's diverse student communities. Learn more at ejce.berkeley.edu/mcc or (510) 642-6528.
Reporting: For information and support on reporting hate crimes or hate-motivated acts, visit stophate.berkeley.edu.
As a campus community, we must uphold a standard of care and respect in both words and actions that lives up to our values and principles of community. This is a time for greater self-examination of society's institutions and structures—including our university—and a bold commitment to healthier national and campus cultures. In this way, we honor lives lost or forever changed through acts of hate and violence by bringing about change for justice and belonging.
To the UC Davis Community:

"I can't breathe." These were the last words uttered by Eric Garner as he was being murdered on Staten Island in 2014.

"I can't breathe."These were among the last words spoken by George Floyd as he suffered the same fate under hauntingly similar circumstances in Minneapolis on Monday evening.

In 2014, I tried to explain the Garner incident to my daughters. Yesterday, I tried to explain the Floyd incident to myself. In both cases, I fell short. Murder captured on video defies explanation.

Needless to say, these tragedies hit my family and me hard. I know it's touched a deep nerve with many of you as well. You have reached out to express your support, concern, sadness and anger, and I appreciate it. To be honest, it's been difficult for me to know how to address this because it is so personal.

I lived in Georgia for nearly 30 years, where Ahmaud Arbery was hunted and killed. George Floyd could have been any African American man, including me. Beyond the constant barrage of fear of the negative consequences of birding while black, shopping while black, cooking out while black, exercising while black — it is just exhausting. And I'm tired.

I can't claim to speak for all African Americans or all people of color. And to ask me or others like me to do so is a burden others don't have to carry. So I have thought a lot about how America got here, so long ago, and why we haven't made as much progress as we often claim.

The events of this week also cause me to believe even more strongly, if that's possible, in building an inclusive environment that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. I remain committed to that and hope you will do what you can to eliminate racism, sexism, and other negative influences on our progression as a nation.

Perhaps higher education can be that positive influence on lives beyond an education. Perhaps here we can create a way forward. Perhaps here we can breathe.

Sincerely,

Gary S. May
Chancellor

Category
Messages and Announcements
Tags
Chancellor's Messages
Offices of the Chancellor and Provost
Fifth Floor, Mrak Hall
University of California, Davis
One Shields Avenue
Davis, CA 95616

(530) 752-2065

Categories
Messages and Announcements
Speeches
Related Articles
Kayton Carter, Renetta Garrison Tull and Chancellor May stand together in a moment of silence. 
Checking In With Chancellor May: Beyond the Moment
June 05, 2020
Provost Hexter standing outside looking at camera
A Message to Our Students as We Near the Close of Spring 2020
June 04, 2020
Chancellor May sitting at desk writing a letter
Checking In With Chancellor May: A Way Forward
May 29, 2020
Chancellor Gary May seriously and thoughtfully looking to the side
Checking In With Chancellor May: Reflection
May 22, 2020
Chancellor May sitting at desk writing a letter
Coronavirus Update for Incoming Fall 2020 Students
May 21, 2020

In Support of the African American Community
May 31, 2020
Dear UCI Community:

We watched with shock and horror the video of a white policeman callously, even casually, kneeling on the neck of an unarmed and unresisting black man until that man was dead, while other policemen stood by and watched.  This brutal and racist act was like something out of Mississippi during Jim Crow, out of the past we don't acknowledge enough, but it wasn't.  It is our reality, in the here and now, a reality that reflects the harsh, brutal, terrible, ongoing legacy of America's original sin.

We empathize with the pain, sadness, and anger that many Black students, employees, and alumni understandably are feeling.  Please reach out to any of us if we can help you during this extraordinary time.

The unrest that is roiling our country, from coast to coast, is a profoundly distressing statement of the crisis of our society.  At the core of this crisis is the reality of anti-Black racism in the United States.  The death of George Floyd was not isolated.  Breonna Taylor, a first responder, died in a hail of gunfire in her Louisville home in March.  Tony McDade, a Black trans-masculine person, was shot and killed by Tallahassee police.  Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia was hunted down and murdered by vigilantes.  His story is all too familiar.  Unarmed, Trayvon Martin was killed by George Zimmerman in 2012.  Their crime: jogging and walking while Black.  This sickening and outrageous roll call goes on and on.

The response to these and other unjustified deaths reflects a profound and justified sense of grievance and frustration with policing and our justice system.  The unrest that we are witnessing is no less about the persistence of systematic oppression and exclusion in educational opportunity, participation in the economy, access to health care, and all areas of social life essential to social justice and human well being.   

As Vice Chancellor Haynes noted in his message last Thursday, the experience of anti-Blackness belies the notion that "We are all in this together." 

But if we are to survive, as a nation, as a society, we must be in this together.  

Here at UCI, an institution devoted to the betterment of the world, our Inclusive Excellence Action Plan focuses on promoting a campus culture defined by community, thriving, and wellness.  That is not enough.  We can and must do more. All of us, collectively, must confront the distinctive, fundamental reality of anti-Blackness. We must also look forward and explore what we can do—in our practices, our teaching, our research, our community engagement, our interpersonal interactions—to mitigate the pervasive and systemic injustices and brutalities of anti-Blackness.

To this end, Vice Chancellor Haynes will develop and launch by fall 2020 a wide-ranging initiative.  With input from campus stakeholders and community, this initiative will ensure that our campus community is educated about anti-Blackness, takes steps to dismantle anti-Black sentiment, enhances scholarly expertise and research, promotes the intellectual and cultural capital of Black communities, transforms the professoriate and knowledge workforce of the future, and identifies other ways we can rise to the serious challenges confronting all of us.   

We stand in unity with the African-American community to deepen everyone's understanding so that we make this world a better place, for today and for future generations.  To do this work we must be in this together.

Let there be light for us all,

Chancellor Howard Gillman
Interim Provost Hal Stern
Vice Chancellor, Student Affairs Willie Banks
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Douglas Haynes
UCI Chief of Police Liz Griffin
The Pain Behind the Protests
Campus Update
To the Campus Community:

Across the country, people are horrified by the recent killings of three African Americans: Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd. We share that outrage. And these are only a few of the most recent deaths to cause particular anguish amongst those who for too long have endured cruelty after cruelty, indignity after indignity.

What stood out about the killing of George Floyd — more than its senselessness, more than its brutality – was its casualness. What was so chilling was the relaxed demeanor of a police officer — sworn to protect and to serve — his hands calmly in his pockets, kneeling on the neck of a fellow human being, indifferent to his cries of pain and the fear for his life. Equally harrowing was his three fellow officers who stood there and did not recognize the need to intervene in a life or death situation. All these behaviors reflected the utter dehumanization of Black life.

We must never let that indifference to human suffering become our own. We must never deaden our hearts to the pain of others. Our fundamental values demand that we care.

At UCLA, we believe deeply that equity, respect and justice are central to the character of our institution, to the health of our democracy and to the well-being of our world. Still, we recognize that UCLA also can and must do better. As campus leaders, we recommit ourselves to ensuring that our policies and actions value the lives, safety and dignity of every Bruin.

We have begun the process of coordinating virtual reflection spaces for departments and units, where we can come together to try and process what has happened. With assistance from the Office for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion and the university’s Equity Advisors, we are also trying to share ways we can honestly and humbly acknowledge the pain and search for solutions. This includes working with student government leaders to understand and address the needs of our students. Our efforts will be updated on the Resources for Racial Trauma web page as we push forward to deeper understanding and genuine change.

We conclude by stating unequivocally that Black lives DO matter. They matter at UCLA. They matter in Minnesota. They matter everywhere.

In solidarity,
Gene D. Block
Chancellor
Emily A. Carter
Executive Vice Chancellor and
Provost
Michael Meranze
Chair, Academic Senate
Michael J. Beck
Administrative Vice Chancellor
Gregg Goldman
Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer
Monroe Gorden, Jr.
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Jerry Kang
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity
and Inclusion
Michael S. Levine
Vice Chancellor for Academic Personnel
John Mazziotta
Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences
CEO, UCLA Health

Louise C. Nelson
Vice Chancellor for Legal Affairs
Mary Osako
Vice Chancellor for Strategic Communications

Rhea Turteltaub
Vice Chancellor for External Affairs
Roger Wakimoto
Vice Chancellor for Research
Yolanda J. Gorman
Senior Advisor to the Chancellor and Chief of Staff

Dan Guerrero
The Alice and Nahum Lainer Family Director of Athletics
Antonio E. Bernardo
Dean, Anderson School of
Management
Ronald S. Brookmeyer
Dean, Fielding School of Public Health
Eric Bullard
Dean, Continuing Education and UCLA Extension

Miguel A. García-Garibay
Dean, Division of Physical Sciences
Robin L. Garrell
Vice Provost, Graduate Education
Dean, Graduate Division

Darnell M. Hunt
Dean, Division of Social Sciences
Brian Kite
Interim Dean, School of Theater, Film and Television

Paul H. Krebsbach
Dean, School of Dentistry
Kelsey Martin
Dean, David Geffen School of Medicine
Jennifer L. Mnookin
Dean, School of Law
Jayathi Y. Murthy
Dean, Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science

Linda Sarna
Dean, School of Nursing
Gary M. Segura
Dean, Luskin School of Public Affairs
David Schaberg
Dean, Division of Humanities
Victoria Sork
Dean, Division of Life Sciences

Brett Steele
Dean, School of the Arts and Architecture
Eileen Strempel
Dean, The Herb Alpert School of
Music
Marcelo Suárez-Orozco
Dean, Graduate School of Education & Information Studies

Pat Turner
Senior Dean, College
Dean and Vice Provost, Undergraduate Education

Tony Lee
Chief of UCLA Police Department
Naomi Riley
President, Undergraduate Students Association
Jean Paul Santos
President, Graduate Students Association
 
UC Riverside Mourns the Death of George Floyd
KIM A. WILCOX
Chancellor
May 29, 2020
Dear Campus Community,

In March and early April, elected leaders held daily press conferences in which they reported the number of ventilators they had secured. In hospitals and labs, physicians, scientists, and device manufacturers looked for new ways to help patients suffering from COVID-19 breathe. Both federal and state entities went to great expense to ensure that those who needed it had air.

Then, this week, videos showed a police officer with his knee pushing into the neck of an African American man named George Floyd, while two others held his legs as he took his last breath. Before he died, Floyd pleaded, "I can't breathe," to the men who took his life. 

There is no denying that air is sought for some and stolen from others. 

The death of George Floyd follows the death of Ahmaud Arbery, an unarmed African American man chased down and shot by white men while jogging near his home in Georgia. 

We represent an institution committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion. To those of you who too well understand the fear of being arrested, assaulted or killed because of the color of your skin – from ongoing Anti-Black racism to COVID-19 Anti-Asian upsurges, we want you to know we are with you and grateful that you are a part of our community. We will continue to foster an environment that not only values equality but fights inequity where we see it.

Our country has buried too many in recent months. We mourn all of these lost lives but today grieve most deeply a loss that didn't have to be and reaffirm our commitment to work toward a better tomorrow. 
Statement on George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery
Today our hearts are burdened, our minds are searching, and our spirits are processing a mix of disbelief, anger and sadness. The news of George Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on Monday night and the disturbing video of his final moments has shocked the world. Taken in context with the recent killings of Breonna Taylor (by police in her own home) and Ahmaud Arbery (by neighbors while jogging), our black community members, in particular, are outraged, traumatized, fearful and in profound pain.

Grief and concern in their purest forms have been made even more poignant during this time of great uncertainty due to the global public health crisis. The coronavirus pandemic has magnified the long history of racism in our country, ongoing inequity, and the status quo of the dehumanization of our fellow Black Americans.

How do we react? What do we do? Where do we start?
We begin by extending our sincere, heartfelt sympathies to the loved ones of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We join in mourning their unspeakably tragic and untimely deaths. We stand in solidarity with our black family, friends and neighbors in their time of need and help them shoulder their everyday lives so that they have the necessary time to mourn and process the deeper meanings of these losses. And most importantly, no matter how painful, difficult or uncomfortable, we must review these events with full transparency and recognize there are systemic problems in our society that desperately need our attention, time and energy to remedy.

We must recognize the violation of human rights and the devastating effects that systemic racism, oppression and violence have on the safety, security and health of communities of color. We cannot let these acts be normalized or allow ourselves to become numb to them. The University of California San Diego unequivocally condemns the disproportionate use of excessive force by some police in communities of color.

We also denounce vigilante acts that terrorize members of the community based upon race, ethnicity, country of origin, religion, disability, gender, gender identity, or sexual orientation. We as a community must not and will not tolerate acts of hate, bias or violence. We are committed to doing what can be done within our institution to make sure everyone feels that they belong and that they matter. This should be our commitment to ourselves and to each other.

Where do we go from here?
In the coming weeks, our Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion has planned community conversations to provide spaces for healing and identifying ways to be agents of change in this moment. Details are forthcoming and will be communicated via campus notice.

We know that statements such as these do not resolve the intractable issues we face as a country. We know it does not even begin to heal the hurt and trauma caused by structural and systemic racism and discrimination. Collectively, let us continue to work together for a more just, equitable and humane society in our service, activism, pedagogy, and community and collaborative efforts.

Pradeep K. Khosla
Chancellor

Elizabeth H. Simmons
Executive Vice Chancellor

Maripat Corr
Chair, San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

Steven Constable
Vice Chair, San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

David A. Brenner
Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences

Margaret S. Leinen
Vice Chancellor for Marine Sciences

Sandra A. Brown
Vice Chancellor for Research

Gary C. Matthews
Vice Chancellor for Resource Management and Planning

Pierre Ouillet
Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer

Becky R. Petitt
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion

Alysson Satterlund
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Judy Bruner
Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer

Anne L. Buckley
Chief Communications and Marketing Officer

Vince Kellen
Chief Information Officer

Patty Maysent
Chief Executive Officer for UC San Diego Health

Daniel W. Park
Chief Campus Counsel

Nancy Resnick
Chief Human Resource Officer

David S. Rose
Chief of Police

Michael Trigilio
Chair of the Committee on Diversity and Equity
San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

SHARE
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Email
Print


Statement on George Floyd
To: UC Santa Cruz Community

From: Chancellor Cynthia Larive

May 29, 2020

SHARE THIS STORY:TwitterFacebookLinkedInReddit
Dear Campus Community,

I write today to share our pain, sadness, and anger for the murder of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota. In the midst of this unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic, the all too common violence and threat of violence perpetrated against Black people and other communities of color in our country escalates. George Floyd’s death is part of an appalling history of racist harassment, assault, and murder that stretches back far too long in the life of our nation. There are too many victims whose experiences never made headlines and whose names will never become public. I know that grief weighs heavily on many members of our community. I struggle with my own sense of heartbreak.

Our university struggles with and works within the same context of white supremacist systems, structures, and conditions that make life more dangerous and precarious for people of color. Universities, like our country, have taken too long to translate our ideals into action or sustainable change. Transforming the university takes work, and we are still engaged in that work. The pace of change is frustratingly slow and the instruments of change are imperfect. The difficulties of this past year for our community highlight how far we have to go. 

I encourage you to reach out to campus services for support. In addition to support services offered by staff in our colleges and resource centers, Counseling and Psychological Services provides assistance for students. For employees, the Employee Assistance Program can provide counseling and support.

Sincerely,

Cindy

Our community and events in Minneapolis and Chicago
 
To: Members of the University Community
From: Ka Yee C. Lee, Provost
Subject: Our community and events in Minneapolis and Chicago
Date: May 30, 2020
 
Our nation is confronting painful issues in the wake of the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis and a number of other racially motivated incidents. These recent examples represent a small fraction of the bias and violence that occurs across the U.S. and around the world each day. The deep alarm expressed by people throughout the country, including in our home of Chicago, reflects many decades of grief and anguish over the intractable scourge of racism against minority communities, particularly African Americans.
 
I know that many of you are feeling sadness, pain, and anger over these recent events. In these already difficult times, this is an occasion for solidarity and for a strengthened commitment to care for each other and work to improve our community, our city and, our nation. Even though most of us are separated by distance as this quarter comes to a close, our shared values bind us together to seek truth, value diversity, and strive for justice.
 
Diversity and inclusion are core values of our institution. We value every member of our campus community, and each of us should show respect for one another. The vitality of the South Side is fundamentally linked with that of the University, and we esteem the deep relationships and partnerships that the residents of the South Side and members of the University community have built together. Fostering a sense of trust, inclusion, belonging and safety for our faculty, other academic appointees, staff, and students is always a priority, and especially so during this time. In the coming days, there will be more information about opportunities for our community to come together in dialogue about these issues.
 
We also encourage you to access the many valuable University resources that may be helpful to you right now:
 
The Center for Identity + Inclusion engages students and members of our University community from all backgrounds to ensure personal, academic, and professional growth, and success.
The Center for the Study of Race, Politics, and Culture offers a wide array of programming, including a Zoom series focused on the racial disparities of COVID-19.
The Pozen Center for Human Rights offers regular programming about global human rights.
Spiritual Life serves as a destination for religious and spiritual needs.
UChicago Student Wellness offers counseling services and other support for students impacted by these and other events.
The Urban Health Initiative runs inclusive community grants and organizes a variety of community programs and services.
The Diversity & Inclusion website features a listing of related events happening across campus.
 
Thank you for the continuing work of people across our University to build a strong, supportive, and inclusive community.
 
 
Keywords: 
Announcements
Diversity and Inclusion
It is hard not to be haunted by the brutal reality that Dr. King’s words are needed as much in 2020 as they were in 1967. America has failed to hear the profound ways we are, repeatedly, failing each other. And not only in small, I-will-do-better-next-time ways. But in the biggest way imaginable—by failing to fight for the basic humanity of our neighbor. Our hearts ache for the family and friends of George Floyd, as they continue to do so for the loved ones of Samuel DuBose. We must agree destruction of our neighborhoods is not the answer. Let us instead heed the clarion call from President Obama to "work together to create a ‘new normal’ in which the legacy of bigotry and unequal treatment no longer infects our institutions or our hearts."
From the Chancellor - Standing against hate and violence
May 29, 2020

As I see national news stories about the death of George Floyd and other recent acts of racism, I reflect on the conversations I had earlier this year with our students about these very issues. 

Even though a global pandemic is keeping us apart from each other, I share in your pain, anger and sadness. When we see acts of racism, it affects us deeply and takes a physical, mental and emotional toll. We must reach out and support each other as we process what has happened. For me, I will not lose hope. I take heart in how our students have engaged with us over the last academic year. We had honest conversations in a genuine effort to enhance campus climate together and build a more welcoming, safe and inclusive community for all.

These intolerable injustices, whether they happen in Minnesota, New York or here in Colorado, strike at the core of everything we believe. Let me be clear: I am committed to diversity and inclusion of everyone on our campus. 

We stand in solidarity with all members of our campus community, including our police department and the city of Boulder in encouraging and supporting peaceful demonstrations.

As a campus community, it is incumbent on us to encourage civil discourse that lifts us all from this darkness. Universities can be, and must be, at the heart of social change. As a campus, we continuously work to cultivate a diverse, inclusive and welcoming community. We best illustrate this through our moral actions when we see injustice, close to home or far away.

Please take care of yourselves, each other and use our campus support resources, which continue to be available during these difficult times. 
 

Phil DiStefano,
CU Boulder Chancellor
Dear UConn Community,

Recent events have called national attention yet again to the destructive power of prejudice and racism. The death of George Floyd in police custody in Minneapolis serves as our most recent example. We are disgusted by the images we have seen capturing the unconscionable acts that caused his death. Demonstrations across the country make clear that communities are hurting and frustrated by repeated acts of violence against their neighbors, friends, and families. These events have saddened and angered so many on a deeply personal level, with the burden of fear for one's own and their family's safety placed squarely upon African-Americans.

Unfortunately, this is just one of many examples of the pain caused by systemic injustices that are present every day. Take, for example, the disproportionate rates of death by COVID-19 among African-American, Latinx, and Indigenous peoples, or the discriminatory acts targeting individuals of Asian descent and foreign nationals from many countries in this pandemic. This adds to the already vulnerable experience of so many in our community, including but not limited to DACA students who are unsure about their future; individuals with disabilities who can feel invisible; LGBTQ+ individuals experiencing verbal and physical acts of violence; individuals subjected to intolerance based on their religious identity and beliefs; and people of color who are forced to constantly question if they can engage safely in routine activities like jogging or bird watching.

These events underscore the critical importance of our infusing diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in everything we do every single day. Not with mantra and platitudes, but with clearly articulated and tangible action that is supported by the University with budget and action. As scholars, educators, and colleagues, we are uniquely positioned to reflect, learn, and act.

We are committed to this work as UConn moves forward from some of its own recent struggles. We have a crucial new partner in these efforts with the recent hire of Dr. Frank Tuitt as our new Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer. We are all eager to work with him to sustain a culture that understands, respects, and appreciates differences, but also one that readily acknowledges our shortcomings and holds ourselves accountable for measurable progress at all times.

As he looks ahead to this new role, Frank shared the following: "I strongly believe that institutions like UConn should be at the center of creating spaces for students, faculty, and staff to imagine and invent ways to build more inclusive, affirming, and equitable institutions, organizations, and communities, and I look forward to doing my part to contribute to that collective effort."

We have communicated closely with him over the past several days, and we all will benefit from his leadership and expertise.

We have the opportunity to engage our entire community in the work that is needed, building upon continued advocacy and efforts of concerned faculty, staff, and administrators at UConn in collaboration with our cultural centers and our amazing undergraduate and graduate students who are willing to speak clearly and directly about their experiences. Change cannot be carried out by one person or one office alone. Too often the labor of this work is disproportionately undertaken by our most vulnerable, impacting their career progression, as well as their mental health and overall satisfaction with their work experience. This is a time when we can build momentum to share the responsibility across our entire community at our Storrs, UConn Health, Avery Point, Hartford, Stamford, Waterbury, and law school campuses.

We also have been extremely fortunate to benefit from the stewardship of Interim Chief Diversity Officer Dana Wilder. Building on strengths of the Office for Diversity and Inclusion, we are positioned as a national leader and a place where people of all identities feel they have a genuine opportunity for success and belonging. We encourage each of you to explore their website, which includes multiple resources including trainings and guides as well as information on events and cultural centers sponsored by their office.

There are no simple solutions or easy answers to solve the issues of injustice and prejudice in society and at our University. Of all of the various parts of our experience as administrators, this is the one area where we both feel like we have not done enough or met our own expectations. We do not experience that feeling as despair, but instead as a motivator to understand and accept our own privilege and the responsibilities that it brings to do more. We encourage our community to hold our entire leadership team accountable as we carry out that vital work together.

The challenge now is to remember this moment even if it fades from the headlines and to continue to strive for a society and a UConn that allows all to live safely and welcomed.

Sincerely,
Tom and Carl

Tom Katsouleas
President

Carl Lejuez
Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs
WE CAN DO BETTER AS A UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY
Photo by Kathy F. Atkinson June 04, 2020

A message from UD President Dennis Assanis
Editor's note: President Dennis Assanis shared this message with the University community on June 4.

Dear UD Community,

Our society is calling for equity and social justice. I hear you, and I am part of that call. We can do better as a University community. And we will do it together.

Over the past several days, many of you have written to me or posted your thoughts on social media to express your anger and frustration about the racial injustices that have been laid bare by the social unrest taking place in our nation. What’s more, I have been truly heartbroken to hear the stories of discrimination and prejudice that many of you have experienced, whether in our broader society or, unfortunately, here within our own community. It is so disturbing to see that some individuals do not grasp the insidious nature of racism and the very real pain caused by offensive and exclusionary language.

Every member of our community — students, faculty, and staff — is welcomed and valued at the University of Delaware. We must ensure that everyone is treated with respect and a sense of belonging. We should seek to find commonality, humanity, and civility to bridge our differences. We condemn the discriminatory and inflammatory words used by some members of our community. They do not reflect the University’s values. We are addressing each of these situations in accordance with the University’s conduct and non-discrimination policies.

Last week, the nationwide protests began as a response to the senseless deaths of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky — as well as the long list of other victims of discrimination and violence in American history. The global consciousness that has been reawakened by these tragedies must continue to advance our progress toward a society that is anti-racist and anti-hate. Education lies at the heart of this effort and is the key to real and lasting change.

Without a doubt, the University of Delaware can and must do more to expand diversity and promote inclusion and equity in our community. Since coming to UD, I have tried to face the challenges of history and culture that I see. Indeed, building inclusive excellence has always been personally important to me. While we have made strides in diversifying our faculty ranks and our student enrollment, there is clearly additional work to be done. I am committed — as is my administration — to redoubling our efforts to increase minority representation among our students, faculty and staff. But we know that the numbers are just one component of the equation. We must work ever harder to promote a more inclusive culture throughout UD where everyone is valued and all can expand their potential and believe in a better future.

To this end, I will be working closely with campus leaders to ensure progress and action around key needs of the University. Recognizing that these are both priorities and opportunities to take UD forward, we all need to take the following steps:

We need to build a more inclusive culture — Through education for all members of our community, we can cultivate a greater appreciation of the value of diverse peoples, cultures and perspectives. This is absolutely essential in modern society and directly supports our institutional mission to prepare our citizens to succeed. This semester we piloted an online diversity, equity, and inclusion education module. We will plan to require this training of all undergraduate and graduate students beginning in this upcoming academic year.
We need to listen and learn — We are planning a series of forums that will span the entire next academic year where all members of our community will have their voices heard and acknowledged. The input gathered at these forums will help inform our next steps as we continue to improve our campus climate with actionable initiatives. We are also mindful of those who have been silent, and we encourage them to come forward and share their stories, perspectives and ideas.
We need to act now — We will strengthen our collective awareness of and response to prejudice, diligently recruit underrepresented faculty and students, and raise funds for social justice initiatives on campus. We will also connect our campus-wide efforts and networks into a more robust agenda for larger impact.
We need to ensure accountability and operate effectively together as a united community — Everyone is responsible, and this needs to be enforced through renewed policies and practices using a framework where differences are respected and celebrated. We must also ensure that our campus climate and culture assessments are frequent and thorough, and that they reaffirm our commitment to improve the diversity and inclusion landscape at UD.
We have more to do — This list is not exhaustive, nor will it ever end. Our work to build a more equitable and inclusive society must be ongoing. We will remain committed to being open, to listening and to working together to make progress possible at UD. We not only welcome your active engagement; we need it. This is a call to action for everyone here now and with ties to UD.
There will be additional steps in the coming weeks and months. I welcome your input as we move forward. Please always feel free to reach out to Michael Vaughan, interim vice provost for diversity and inclusion, at vpd@udel.edu, or José-Luis Riera, vice president for student life, at studentdiversity@udel.edu.

This is an extraordinarily challenging time for all of us. I am inspired by the strength, the caring and the unshakable resolve of the University of Delaware community, and I ask you to join me in recommitting ourselves to ensuring that our institution continues to be a source of pride for all students, all faculty, all staff, all alumni … all people.

Sincerely,

Dennis Assanis, President


George Floyd was a member of our Third Ward community and we share in the tremendous pain our community is experiencing. Our thoughts are with his friends and family, Houston and the nation at large. We mourn with you.
June 4, 2020 | Let Us Reflect on this Day of Mourning
Dear University of Idaho Faculty, Staff and Students,

Today is a National Day of Mourning to respectfully recognize the death of George Floyd and the loss to his family as well as other lives lost. Words and actions matter, especially in times of national unrest and fearfulness, and especially from institutional leaders. They can calm or provoke, heal or hurt, and at their best, motivate meaningful change for good. The memo we sent out earlier this week regarding diversity and safety missed that last mark.

Asking that we treat each other with kindness and compassion was perceived by some as a request not to engage when we witness racism or injustice. That could not be further from what was intended. We must act against racism and injustice by addressing the change that needs to occur to create social equity.

So, today, in this moment of mourning, let me be more direct:

Black lives matter, and what happened to George Floyd and so, so many other African American and black citizens is abhorrent. No human being should ever have to fear for their life based solely on the color of their skin. The tragic fact is this is not a new phenomenon, but rather an all too frequent part of our national history.
There is no room for disagreement when it comes to basic human civil rights and crimes against humanity. We have a responsibility to engage and act when we see injustice. Truly, our future as a society depends on it.
We should be able to have a difficult conversation about race and equity issues and treat each other with civility and compassion … including on social media. This does not mean we tolerate or condone racism or hate crimes; it means that we are a place where people from all backgrounds should feel safe.
Listening — and truly hearing — the concerns of African American and black students, faculty, staff, and alumni, as well as other underrepresented communities, is critical to moving forward. Action toward lasting change matters as well. After campuswide discussions, we have adopted a diversity plan that we believe will help take action and address issues of social inequity. As Vandals, let’s work together and tackle these issues. It is the only way to realize the very best future for the community. Let’s take this National Day of Mourning to pay our respects to a life unjustly taken and work on our own reflection and racial reconciliation.

Scott Green
President

president@uidaho.edu
uidaho.edu/president
The anger, sadness, and fear felt by our community, and specifically Black communities across our nation, over the killing of George Floyd are justified. This is not a new phenomenon and the Black community is, we are sure, exhausted from the constant trauma and pain of being the recipients of mistreatment by those who are tasked with serving and protecting communities—the police.

There is also disappointment, frustration, and pain due to the continued disproportionate police brutality against people of color, specifically the Black community. These inequalities manifest themselves economically and socially. No one should feel their race or any aspect of their identity makes them a target for violence. Addressing inequality requires changing hearts, minds, and systems, and the University of Iowa will continue to work toward that goal through actions. To that end, we will release an update to our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Action Plan, which our community has developed, this coming week.

Over the past several days, the images from across our nation are difficult to comprehend and elicit a range of feelings. While we will engage with these emotions individually, and on our own timeline, one thing is clear—together we must act. Each of us must lead change within our individual communities to actively disrupt racism (interpersonal, systemic, and societal).

As you know, on our campus and within our community:

    We will not tolerate anything but a safe and inclusive campus for people of all backgrounds regardless of race, creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, religion, ancestry, or disability.
    We value the First Amendment and freedom of expression and believe civil discourse and the respectful exchange of ideas are the cornerstones of higher education and this great institution.

We are here to help. Many resources are available and we encourage you to reach out and ask for help.
We, the Chancellor and Provost of the University of Kansas, are emerging, as many of you are, from a week of heart wrenching conversations about the toxic impact that racism has on all of our communities. The deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and David McAtee, and the exchange between Amy Cooper and Christian Cooper in Central Park, are just recent and high-profile additions to innumerable immoral acts of racism to Black members of our communities.

The protests across the country, in the region, and in our cities over the past week and in Lawrence Sunday night are powerful statements of the depth of pain and anger that so many of our students, colleagues and friends are feeling. We have done a lot of listening over the past several days, and we recognize the disappointment that our earlier messages created. We hear our community members when you tell us you are broken-hearted and exhausted, and that it’s too much to bear.

We know that acts of racism and discrimination, in their many forms, happen in Lawrence and at KU, and on a regular basis. We are not free of the causes of this period of protest and unrest.

The egregious acts of racism and discrimination that have been targeted toward our Black community members do not stand in isolation. Members of Asian, LatinX, Muslim, immigrant and LGBTQIA communities are also targets of hate speech, discrimination, and racialized violence. Our community members who have disabilities and those who experience challenges with mental health are often stigmatized, abandoned, and suffer in silence. Members of our Black and Native communities have been disproportionately devastated by COVID-19, which is another fatal reminder of the systemic disparities in health outcomes, availability of financial support, and educational resources for so many of our most vulnerable community members.

Our hearts break with yours. We stand with you and for you.

It’s long past time for racism and discrimination to end. If we are to be on the side of social justice, we — meaning, we as leaders, KU as an institution, and each of us as community members — simply must do the work.

We all need KU to be a place that doesn’t replicate, tolerate or perpetuate racism, systematically, systemically, or individually. We know you are anxiously waiting and hoping that we can get past talking and hollow promises, and do something together in a different way that begins to make things better. You want us to hold ourselves to a higher standard, and we are ready to step up, to take responsibility, and to place KU at the forefront of social change.

In consultation and collaboration with leaders of our communities of color and marginalized groups, we begin today to engage in actions that move us to change:

    We will convene the leaders of our campus police, the City of Lawrence Police Department, the City Manager and the Mayor to discuss policing strategies that reinforce respectful and community-engaged policing, and to re-emphasize comprehensive police training that does not permit the kinds of acts that led to the death of George Floyd and so many others.
    We will bring together the leaders of our diversity councils to establish a university-level advisory council for equity and inclusion and commit to regular and continued outreach.
    We will charge leaders across campus to participate in training that will allow us to begin the work of facilitating intergroup dialogues that bring together representatives of agent groups and target groups to open up difficult conversations.
    We will partner with leaders in higher education and in the public and private sectors across the Greater Kansas City Region to engage in initiatives that immediately begin to address root causes in key areas that impact racial violence.
    We will ensure that improving equity, diversity and inclusion is explicitly stated as a goal for each team in our COVID-19 Design Challenge and in the longer term, in all of our Jayhawks Rising strategic doing activities.

Memorial Hall Mural: Our Past, Our Present and Why It's Time to Move Forward
By President Eli Capilouto Friday

LEXINGTON, Ky. (June 5, 2020) — On Friday, June 5, University of Kentucky President Eli Capilouto sent the following message to all students, faculty and staff:

 

I have not been able to get the images out of my mind. And the images should be — and will be forever — in my mind.

For eight minutes and 46 seconds, on a street in an American city in 2020, George Floyd was suffocated to death — a knee at his neck, gasps escaping from his mouth, as he pleaded for his life and for his mother.

I can't adequately articulate the horror and disturbing nature of those images to me. I don't have words to capture the mix of emotions — of anger and sadness, disbelief and nagging recognition that we have been here before — that have gnawed at me for days.

But I also know that I can't begin to feel how a Black man or woman or the parent of a Black child processes those images, either.

To every issue, we bring our curated experiences — funneled through the prism of our mind's eye — to an incident like this one or, for that matter, to a work of music, writing or art. Those sounds, images and narratives are necessarily interpreted with the context of a given moment by generations of people over the passage of time.

The simple truth is I can't walk in their shoes. I can't be in their skin. And I can't understand what intergenerational subjugation does to families who are its victims.

But I can try for greater understanding, a deeper sense of empathy and renewed resolve to contribute to healing, to do justice and to find reconciliation. As much as racism is a systemic stain on our country, so too, are we the inheritors of Dr. King's admonition that the moral arc of the universe ultimately bends toward justice. That is where I believe we find ourselves as a campus community today. We have not been immune from racial prejudice and hate, but I believe deeply that there is a commitment to doing better tomorrow than we are doing today.

It's against that imperfect and human backdrop that I am directing our facilities team to immediately begin the process of removing the mural in Memorial Hall.

Why now? And what does this move accomplish?

Just as certain images haunt me, I also cannot escape certain conversations that, over years, remain fresh.

To many, the mural represents the work of a renowned artist, seeking in her time, to represent the evolution, however halting, of her native state. And as with all art, we seek to understand the intent of the artist and bring our own meaning and interpretation to it.

I remember a conversation at Maxwell Place with 24 African American students in the fall of 2015. There, they detailed a list of recommendations that included "racist mural in Memorial Hall." There was a conversation with one student about the mural who stopped me cold with the observation that every time he walked into a class in Memorial Hall, he was forced to reckon with the fact that his forbears were enslaved.

They were chattel; brutalized as disposable property, even though in their time, they were regarded as essential to the economy's progress.

The art, to this student, sought to glorify and sanitize that fact. And he was speaking for many others, over many years, a point made clear again to me recently as we began conversations with our student leaders on how to move forward during this fraught time. The mural once again was a symbol, not of a state's evolution, but of our unwillingness to recognize their experiences as members of our community.

Memorial Hall of course, has its own important story — the story of the UK students and Kentuckians who laid down their lives during the Great War. It is a building constructed in honor of all Kentuckians — African Americans, Native Americans, and women alike — who gave their lives to preserve liberty. 

How do we reconcile those images as perceived now with that narrative?

To be sure, we have discussed the mural for many years and made a number of important, productive efforts to seek common ground and lasting solutions. But the spaces we have created for dialogue, and the work we have commissioned to expand conversation and contextualize art, haven't worked, frankly.

Our efforts and solutions with the mural, for many of our students, have been a roadblock to reconciliation, rather than a path toward healing. That's not a criticism. It is a statement of fact and, I hope, understanding.

We need to move forward. We have a lot of discussion that needs to take place on our campus. And those discussions cannot obviate the necessity of thoughtful, but decisive, action on a number of fronts.

I don't believe we can have that conversation with the mural still, metaphorically, on the table. And, so while in the context of many significant issues we must discuss and decide upon, the mural may appear relatively small, it carries with it tremendous symbolic weight.

I want to remove that weight from the discussions we must have, so that we can act, together, as a community. As we determine how we can move forward with removing the mural, I will communicate with the campus.

There is rarely a perfect solution to challenging issues. But it is the right one, I believe, for our campus at this moment and in the years to come.

Eli Capilouto

--

Media note: Downloadable videos and photo available at https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1BTRFI3FPfLd1tR9KRhmI1AjYRjIrACui?usp=sharing

The University of Kentucky is increasingly the first choice for students, faculty and staff to pursue their passions and their professional goals. In the last two years, Forbes has named UK among the best employers for diversity, and INSIGHT into Diversity recognized us as a Diversity Champion three years running. UK is ranked among the top 30 campuses in the nation for LGBTQ* inclusion and safety. UK has been judged a "Great College to Work for" two years in a row, and UK is among only 22 universities in the country on Forbes' list of "America's Best Employers."  We are ranked among the top 10 percent of public institutions for research expenditures — a tangible symbol of our breadth and depth as a university focused on discovery that changes lives and communities. And our patients know and appreciate the fact that UK HealthCare has been named the state's top hospital for four straight years. Accolades and honors are great. But they are more important for what they represent: the idea that creating a community of belonging and commitment to excellence is how we honor our mission to be not simply the University of Kentucky, but the University for Kentucky.
Message to the UIC Community
May 29, 2020

Dear Faculty, Staff and Students,

This week we saw yet another manifestation of the racism that remains in the fabric of our society. The killing of George Floyd in Minnesota, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky, along with other recent events, remind us again, though we don’t need reminding, how far we still have to go as a society to heal centuries of discrimination and achieve true equality.

We share your grief and outrage and we encourage you to continue to live the values of our university — to be inclusive, to treat each other with dignity and respect, and to provide a safe and supportive environment for each other.

At UIC, we are committed to addressing the deep systemic injustice of racism and advancing equity and inclusion for all people in Chicago, in the nation and around the world.  We are a community that values our differences, our diversity and our shared compassion for humanity. We will always strive to be one grounded in mutual understanding and respect.

If you need support coping with the disturbing events that occurred this week, we encourage you to use the many resources on campus available to support students, faculty and staff.

Sincerely,

Michael Amiridis
Chancellor

Susan Poser
Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs

Robert Barish
Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs

J. Rex Tolliver
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Print Friendly, PDF & Email
Contact
UIC News staff

uicnews-staff@uic.edu
          Reflecting on the events in Minneapolis and beyond
May 30, 2020 11:19 AM

Dear Students, Staff and Faculty,

We, along with so many, are struggling to fully comprehend the systemic violence and the actions of members of the Minneapolis Police Department that resulted in the death of George Floyd this week. This is the home of one of the members of our Big Ten university family and our thoughts are with our colleagues and the broader Minneapolis-St. Paul community today.

And while George Floyd is who we see and mourn this week, we have also witnessed the senseless deaths of Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor this spring.

We stand in the middle of a global health crisis that will claim hundreds of thousands of lives and burden millions of others for a generation to come. These are days when the health of our communities depends entirely on our collective commitment to care for one another. This is when we most need to come together.

It is painful to watch streets filled with more anger and more violence sparked by divisive sources of hatred that our nation seems unable to set aside even when we are all threatened by this virus that does not discriminate in choosing who it harms.

For some of us, this is very, very personal. But the grief, sadness and loss is profound and universal.

The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is a community committed to the scholarship, engagement, equity, inclusion and leadership that dismantles systems that utilize power, privilege and violence to disenfranchise, diminish and destroy.

And unfortunately, this same pandemic that has disrupted so much, also prevents us from coming together physically here at Illinois. We are not able to help each other process what we are seeing and what we are feeling in the way we would wish. So, today, when we cannot raise our voices together, we want to share this message in the hope that it will remind everyone that we do not have to remain silent alone.  

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery. Breonna Taylor. We can say their names and we can help ensure that they are not allowed to be forgotten.  

Sincerely,

Robert J. Jones
Chancellor

Barry Benson
Vice Chancellor for Advancement

Andreas C. Cangellaris
Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and Provost

Sean C. Garrick
Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Susan A. Martinis
Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation

Danita M. B. Young
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

 

          
                   
                  
This mailing approved by:
Office of the Chancellor

sent to:
Everyone
          
                   
 
Massmail Archive   •   Massmail powered by Webtools
 
Students lead the way toward reconciliation
Dr. Joseph Savoie -- Sun, 05/31/2020 - 2:23pm
Dear members of the University family,

George Floyd. Ahmaud Arbery. Breonna Taylor. Tony McDade. 

Their tragic deaths – and those of countless others – are reminders that our nation has much work to do to address discrimination, intolerance and other inexcusable barriers to social justice that have burdened us for far too long.

Universities are a place where that work can occur. Indeed, they are a place where it must occur.

It is the University’s responsibility to model principles of civility, respect and understanding for both its campus family and its wider community. Moreover, it is our duty to embody inclusivity and embrace diversity, and to educate others about their power.

Today, our students exemplified these ideals.

Members of the Student Action and Organizing Committee led a community dialogue on campus about the basic human right that all people – regardless of race, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation or ethnicity – have to live in freedom and security.

These students confronted the sadness, pain and outrage they feel about the events of the past week with clarity and thoughtfulness. They answered insular hate with the diverse voice of which this institution is so proud and from which we draw so much strength.

Our students demonstrated civic engagement and community leadership today, and I applaud them.

Moreover, they showed that the path to binding our nation’s wounds – no matter how deep, how historic and how painful – can be illuminated through conversation rather than violence.

Sincerely,

Dr. Joseph Savoie
President

UM denounces racism
Message from President David T. Barnard
JUNE 2, 2020 — 
 

Dear University Community,

Recent tragic deaths have caused immense suffering and anger as they represent a legacy of racism and police brutality against Black people. We are also witnessing alarming displays of racism against the Asian community in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic; and we recognize the interpersonal and systemic racism that is continually experienced by Indigenous Peoples.

On behalf of the University of Manitoba, I want to say clearly that we denounce racism in all its forms, we commit to solidarity with Black, Indigenous and/or People of Colour (BIPOC) and we commit ourselves to listen, to learn and to do better.

For those of us with privilege, it can be easy to ignore what’s happening, to say that it is not our problem or our story here in Canada. But silence represents ignorance and fear. We must be anti-racist. We must recognize white privilege, and that we exist in systems of white supremacy. We must remember that Canada was built on the lands of the Indigenous Peoples and on the backs of Black and Asian workers. We must join our voices to say enough is enough. 

Though I can never fully understand the experiences of racialized communities, I can commit to educating myself on their stories and histories and I encourage others to do the same. I call on our university community – united in our pursuit of knowledge – to research perspectives beyond our own, to learn the many ways that racism is enforced by our social structures, to seek out difficult truths and to acknowledge harms of the past and the present.

The University of Manitoba community believes in the inherent dignity of all people. We respect our differences, celebrate our commonalities, and are united in our mutual focus on intellectual achievement. We continue to strengthen alliances that are working to increase mutual understanding, respect and support.

Finally, to UM’s racialized students and colleagues, thank you for your strength and resilience. Thank you to those who take the time to educate your peers and colleagues and to speak your truth. Thank you for contributing to the strength of our institution.

We are sorry. Now, we must listen. We must learn. We must do better.

Sincerely,
David

To anyone who is looking for support during this time, please connect with Student Counselling Centre or Employee Assistance Program. If you have experienced discrimination while working or studying at UM, please contact our Office of Human Rights and Conflict Management. UM is also home to a number of groups who are leading crucial work to address racism, and promote diversity and inclusion. 
Statement by USM Leadership on Structural Racism and the Killing of George Floyd
Baltimore, Md. (May 29, 2020) – This week, George Floyd was killed in Minneapolis, a brutal act that recalled other recent killings of black Americans. We acknowledge with one voice the structural racism that’s taking the lives of our fellow citizens, and we stand in solidarity as we speak out against racism, anti-Semitism, sexism, discrimination against our LGBTQ and immigrant communities, religious intolerance, and bigotry of any kind.

We are justly saddened, angered, and frustrated by these acts of brutality and the lack of action when black men and women are killed. Mindful of public health guidelines, we also affirm the right of our communities to protest safely and peacefully to address their legitimate concerns.

We believe that public colleges and universities are obligated to help end inequity and to promote social justice. We draw on the leadership and wisdom of our students, faculty, and staff, many of whom confront these issues every day through their teaching, research, and activism.

We encourage all members of the USM community to seek support, if needed, and to involve themselves in addressing these challenges. We urge our students and colleagues not only to vote, but to help safeguard and improve our democracy.

In the days and weeks ahead, we will be listening to the voices of those who are too often silenced or ignored. When we gather together on campus once again, we will examine with greater resolve the racism and systemic inequities that so gravely endanger our minority communities. We are proud to be a part of a University System that believes in humanity, justice, and opportunity for all.

Please take care of yourselves, your families, and your communities during this difficult time.

Jay A. Perman, Chancellor, University System of Maryland

Aminta Breaux, President, Bowie State University
Anthony Jenkins, President, Coppin State University
Ronald Nowaczyk, President, Frostburg State University
Charles Wight, President, Salisbury University
Kim Schatzel, President, Towson University
Kurt Schmoke, President, University of Baltimore
Bruce E. Jarrell, Interim President, University of Maryland, Baltimore
Freeman A. Hrabowski III, President, University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Peter Goodwin, President, University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science
Wallace D. Loh, President University of Maryland, College Park
Heidi Anderson, President, University of Maryland Eastern Shore
Javier Miyares, President, University of Maryland Global Campus

Stewart Edelstein, Executive Director, Universities at Shady Grove
Mark Halsey, Executive Director, University System of Maryland at Hagerstown
Ben Latigo, Interim Executive Director, University System of Maryland at Southern Maryland


 
Contact: Mike Lurie
Phone: 301.445.2719
Email: mlurie@usmd.edu


Pines: Stand in Solidarity, Unite Against Injustice
President-designate Calls Acts of Violence Against Black Community Nationwide a ‘Stain’ Against UMD Values

By Maryland Today Staff  /  Jun 01, 2020

Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Email
Print this article
Campus aerial shot of Hornbake Library
President-designate Darryll J. Pines writes that the injustices against African Americans in the midst of a pandemic are a double blow to black and brown communities. "They cause additional pain and grief at a time when we are dealing with so many other challenges."
(Photo by John T. Consoli)

University of Maryland President-designate Darryll J. Pines sent the following email to the campus community this afternoon:

Dear University of Maryland Community:

On Wednesday morning, May 26, 2020, I woke up to go through my normal daily routine of getting prepared for the workday. But even before I could start my morning walk with my dog, my cellphone was already vibrating with texts and emails about something that had happened the evening before. Many colleagues, family members and friends had sent me links to the now-infamous video of yet another black man losing his life at the hands of law enforcement. This time, for allegedly using a counterfeit $20 bill at a local shop in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

I took a moment to click on the links and watch the more than nine-minute video of the last breath being sucked out of the body of Mr. George Floyd. As a black man, I screamed words that I cannot repeat here. As a father, I started to reflect on the safety of my son and daughter and on all the diverse communities who are negatively impacted by acts of injustice. I asked myself, what is wrong with our country when these incidents continue to happen time and time again?

In recent weeks we have again witnessed senseless acts of violence perpetrated against the black community. The tragic loss of lives—those of George Floyd in Minneapolis, and before that, the deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, Tony McDade and Sean Reed—due to racial violence is deeply saddening and a stain against the values that we personally hold, and that the University of Maryland, as an institution, cherishes.

The fact that these horrific acts have occurred in the midst of a pandemic is a double blow to black and brown communities. They cause additional pain and grief at a time when we are dealing with so many other challenges. But the shameful reality is that the virus has disproportionately affected communities of color. It has exposed the base inequities of our health care system and made painfully clear how those who have suffered so many other injustices for so long must also unequally bear the burden of this disease. These additional acts of racism and hatred bring into greater focus the injustices occurring in our nation.

The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., once said that:

"The ultimate measure of a man is not where one stands in moments of comfort and convenience but where one stands in times of challenge and controversy."

As a university community, we must not accept these latest incidents as inconsequential. We all must rise up and stand together to show our humanity to one another. We must remind ourselves of Dr. King’s words that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." Finally, we must heed the words of the late President John F. Kennedy, "what unites us is greater than what divides us."

Even though we are physically separated, now is the time to stand in solidarity and unite against any injustice.

Sincerely,

Darryll J. Pines
Glenn L. Martin Professor of Aerospace Engineering
President-Designate
University of Maryland

Tags:Campus & Community

Taking Action at UMass Amherst to Combat Racism: A Message from Nefertiti Walker, Interim Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
June 3, 2020
Dear Campus Community, 

Today, I write to you with a range of emotions. Fear for protesters, some of whom encounter fierce violence. Disappointment in our country for not reckoning with our intimate relationship with anti-Black racism. Frustrated at our institutions for failing to undo the institutionalized racism that we know to be true. 

For years, Black people and allies have been pleading for the end of racism and the violence that follows. Most recently, we cried out for change after the lost lives of Trayvon Martin, Tamir Rice, Michael Brown, Philando Castile, Eric Garner and Sandra Bland, and more recently Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and George Floyd. This list is not conclusive. This list is void of many lives lost to anti-Black racism, and countless other lives devastated by the omnipresence of our nation’s most pervasive disease, racism. 

We have been repeatedly challenged by this violence and by other disturbing acts – increased anti-Asian racism, growing xenophobia and escalating anti-Semitic attacks. This cannot, and will not, be our normal at UMass. We are hopeful and encouraged by the work we have been doing to combat racism and will continue to work tirelessly to undo it in our community. 

To that point, we are immediately getting to work with the following:

Respectful Workplace Training Series. In collaboration with the Office of Equity and Inclusion, Workplace Learning & Development and The Partnership for Worker Education, the purpose is to educate staff about resources available and supervisors (including faculty) on their responsibilities to ensure a university work environment grounded in antiracism, respect and inclusion.
Critical Incident Team. We are developing a triage team to respond consistently to critical campus issues and lead with humanity. More details to follow.
Campus Academy Initiative. The University of Massachusetts Police Department is applying for a team of campus and student leaders (including UMPD representation) to attend a three-day Campus Academy Initiative workshop in August 2020, offered by the Divided Community Project. The aim of the program is to immerse campus leaders in a curriculum aimed at strengthening and expanding campus-specific conflict-resolution capacity and practices. UMPD is committed to participating, as part of our community, in any training, seminar or effort to increase levels of understanding, prevention and responsiveness to critical issues like the ones we continue to see play out across our country.
Increased Data-driven Climate Assessments. We know that within our UMass community, we have micro cultures where people live – in their academic departments, classrooms and residence halls. We need to better understand these climates. Therefore, we will launch a series of assessments to measure and better understand the micro cultures that often impact our community most. This data will then be aggregated and live on the www.umass.edu/diversity website, providing transparency and the ability to inform the actions of the newly formed councils and task force below.
The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leadership Council. This council will convene immediately and be charged by the Chancellor and chaired by the Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. This group will meet regularly to assess, evaluate and advise about the university’s DEI policies and practices. Their meeting minutes will be uploaded to: www.umass.edu/diversity. 
The DEI Student Council. This will be co-chaired by the Senior Director of DEI  and the Assistant Chancellor of Advocacy, Inclusion and Support Programs. This group will meet with student DEI representatives to discuss and advance the most pressing student DEI issues. Similarly, their meeting minutes will be uploaded to: www.umass.edu/diversity.
The Task Force for Anti-racism. In response to the most recent anti-Black violence as well as the increase of other types of racism nationally, this group will be a collection of faculty, staff and students who will work to undo institutional racism in our community. They will be chaired or co-chaired by a combination of faculty, staff and students. More details to follow.
Finally, we will work with each major business unit on campus to set goals related to diversity (representation/under-representation), equity (access and opportunity), and inclusion (feeling welcome and sense of belonging). Leaders will be responsible for setting a culture of inclusion for all people in their area. Therefore, we will set and seek to meet DEI goals as they align with our campus strategic goal of inclusive excellence.

We encourage our students, staff and faculty to exercise their right to speak against the injustice they see in our society, and we implore you to join us in being part of the solutions. These resources will guide and support you in your quest for equity.

Racism, in its many forms, did not emerge overnight or in the past week. It has matured for hundreds of years. Therefore, it will take time and deliberate effort to confront. It will require intentional goal setting, data-informed decision making, and anti-racist action, to truly achieve our goal of inclusive excellence. 

Sincerely,

Nefertiti A. Walker, Ph.D.
Interim Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Chief Diversity Officer 
Driving Change and Reform Needed
Dear Faculty, Staff and Students:

Over the course of the past seven years, together our campus community has faced and overcome many difficult challenges. As we continue to grapple with COVID-19 and its harsh economic consequences, recent national events have revealed some ugly and enduring inequities in American society, sparking anxiety, upset and outrage. In a period of American history unclear and confused in direction and purpose, one thing is abundantly clear. We cannot solve problems we do not acknowledge. The pain and loss of this pandemic have not been evenly distributed in Memphis, in Tennessee, nor across the United States. The most vulnerable among us carry the majority of that burden. This pandemic has revealed decades-long and enduring economic and health-care inequities that cut along racial lines and are at the foundation of that vulnerability. That pain has only been magnified by recent hate-filled violence against African-American men.

As an institution of higher education in one of the most diverse communities in America, our University is committed to being part of the solution. We are a place of hope, healing and healthy debate. We have an identified set of core values that embrace fairness, equity and justice, and we are committed to living those on a daily basis, particularly when they are most needed. It is clear that Memphis needs us, and we are here to help. I will be reaching out to our campus to assist in facilitating the change and reform needed. I am proud to be a Memphian, and a part of a community that works together. Our University is committed to being a part of the solution and helping drive the change and reform needed.  

Regards, 

M. David Rudd, Ph.D., ABPP
President, University of Memphis
Distinguished University Professor of Psychology

Admissions

Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour
Academics

Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware
Athletics

gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media
Research

Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research
Support UofM

Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Administrative Support

President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology
Services
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation
UofM Global Explore Lambuth Campus
Follow UofM Online

Instagram
Facebook
twitter
Youtube
Linkedn
TNeCampus.info
Tennessee Transfer Pathway
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis
Important Notice
 Last Updated: 6/1/20
The University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000
The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.
We need to bring about change
May 29, 2020
I have watched and read in horror reports of the death of George Floyd in Minnesota. Many members of the University of Michigan community have reached out to me to express their heartache and anger that another unarmed African American has been killed by police, who have violated their duty to protect and serve.

I want to thank those of you who have shared your personal feelings on this tragedy. I know that your pain is very real and profound. Many members of our community are experiencing this tragedy in ways that are inseparable from their race and ethnicity – and in ways that I will never be able to fully and personally realize. For instance, our Chief Diversity Officer Robert Sellers has very poignantly written about his experiences today.

I condemn the actions that caused the tragic deaths of George Floyd, of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and of Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. There are far, far too many more examples of racism and violence against people of color from all across our nation, including in our surrounding community.

The reality and scope of this problem are pervasive. A 2018 study whose authors included U-M Institute for Social Research fellow Michael Esposito found that "the risk of being killed by police, relative to White men, is between 3.2 and 3.5 times higher for Black men." Thanks to U-M Political Science Prof. Christian Davenport, we know that the exercising of fundamental rights is treated differently, as "African American protest events are more likely to draw police presence, even when we control for the measures of behavioral threat."

At U-M, we must use our power to address major societal problems – especially those that diminish our society so tragically. This is clear in our mission.

Our mission is also why our work to enhance diversity, equity and inclusion must continue. The University of Michigan has a critical role to play and obligation to lead the kind of changes in our society that we all want to see. I know that our Division of Public Safety and Security is committed to being a continuing partner in this ongoing work. DEI will continue as a major focus of the institution throughout my presidency, beyond our initial five-year Strategic Plan. We must utilize our scholarship, the education and the engagement of our talented faculty, students, and staff to bring about change not only within the university, but also in our broader society. Our collective future depends on it.

During this difficult time, I urge anyone who needs support to access our university's resources.

Students on all three campuses can receive support through CAPS, the university's counseling and psychological services. All faculty and staff in Ann Arbor, Dearborn and Flint can access services through the Faculty and Staff Counseling and Consultation Office. Michigan Medicine faculty and staff can access resources through Office of Counseling and Workplace Resilience.
Skip to navigationSkip to content
Committees
Chancellor Appearance Request
Contact
Office of the Chancellor
University of Missouri

About Planning Inside Mizzou Remarks & Presentations Distinguished Leaders Lecture
June 4, 2020: Tigers leading change
Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Alumni,

Over the last several days, we have seen an outpouring of support for those who have faced racism, both in our community and throughout the country.

University leaders and I have sent notes in recent days voicing our sorrow over the recent injustices and tragic deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor. We have vowed to do more as we have met with numerous black students, staff and faculty who have described the immense toll that systemic discrimination and racism has taken on their confidence in justice, on their mental health and on their hope that true change will ever happen.

We have been watching closely the social media thread #BlackatMizzou on Twitter and Instagram since it began earlier this week and are listening to powerful testimonies from our previous and current students featured there. I can tell you my heart has been rocked by this experience as have many others, and those who shared these posts should know their experiences are valued and have not been ignored.

Each tweet is a sobering reminder of the ugliness many of you have faced. I have been discussing these comments with our deans, faculty and university leaders, and we are learning from the common themes shared while also looking into some specific cases mentioned. These stories of name calling, racist assumptions and lack of response to injustice illustrate to me that our work is far from done related to inclusion, diversity and equity. I wish I could have been there each time these incidents occurred to call out the perpetrators, to hold them accountable and to support those who’ve been affected. But, that’s not possible. So, I call upon each one of us to take the stand to confront discrimination when it happens and to provide care and compassion to those who have suffered from it.

Mizzou continues to be committed to creating an inclusive community where everyone can live, learn and work in an environment that supports and celebrates each individual. I am grateful to our many students, faculty and staff who have worked tirelessly for change at Mizzou. I assure you that we will not stop pressing, and we will strive to spread the responsibility from those who have shouldered the brunt of the work to the larger community. Over the last several years we have done a lot of planning and created some progress and action. We all must do more.

Our community must address this important work together. Some are asking for details of our progress in recent years. To that end, we are organizing community conversations soon to discuss what we have been doing and how we can build on that foundation for a better Mizzou. We will share details in the coming weeks.

On behalf of the faculty, department chairs, deans, provost and the staff, I confirm that we will take important positive actions.

We know our Tiger family will lead change.

Mun Y. Choi, Ph.D.

UM System President and interim MU Chancellor

University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211
573-882-2121

© 2020 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution.

Skip to navigationSkip to content
Committees
Chancellor Appearance Request
Contact
Office of the Chancellor
University of Missouri

About Planning Inside Mizzou Remarks & Presentations Distinguished Leaders Lecture
June 4, 2020: Tigers leading change
Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Alumni,

Over the last several days, we have seen an outpouring of support for those who have faced racism, both in our community and throughout the country.

University leaders and I have sent notes in recent days voicing our sorrow over the recent injustices and tragic deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor. We have vowed to do more as we have met with numerous black students, staff and faculty who have described the immense toll that systemic discrimination and racism has taken on their confidence in justice, on their mental health and on their hope that true change will ever happen.

We have been watching closely the social media thread #BlackatMizzou on Twitter and Instagram since it began earlier this week and are listening to powerful testimonies from our previous and current students featured there. I can tell you my heart has been rocked by this experience as have many others, and those who shared these posts should know their experiences are valued and have not been ignored.

Each tweet is a sobering reminder of the ugliness many of you have faced. I have been discussing these comments with our deans, faculty and university leaders, and we are learning from the common themes shared while also looking into some specific cases mentioned. These stories of name calling, racist assumptions and lack of response to injustice illustrate to me that our work is far from done related to inclusion, diversity and equity. I wish I could have been there each time these incidents occurred to call out the perpetrators, to hold them accountable and to support those who’ve been affected. But, that’s not possible. So, I call upon each one of us to take the stand to confront discrimination when it happens and to provide care and compassion to those who have suffered from it.

Mizzou continues to be committed to creating an inclusive community where everyone can live, learn and work in an environment that supports and celebrates each individual. I am grateful to our many students, faculty and staff who have worked tirelessly for change at Mizzou. I assure you that we will not stop pressing, and we will strive to spread the responsibility from those who have shouldered the brunt of the work to the larger community. Over the last several years we have done a lot of planning and created some progress and action. We all must do more.

Our community must address this important work together. Some are asking for details of our progress in recent years. To that end, we are organizing community conversations soon to discuss what we have been doing and how we can build on that foundation for a better Mizzou. We will share details in the coming weeks.

On behalf of the faculty, department chairs, deans, provost and the staff, I confirm that we will take important positive actions.

We know our Tiger family will lead change.

Mun Y. Choi, Ph.D.

UM System President and interim MU Chancellor

University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211
573-882-2121

© 2020 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution.

Chancellor Green: 'Racism in any form is wrong and has no place in our lives'
Nebraska students hand out "Hate Will Never Win" T-shirts in the Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center before a campus rally in February 2018.
Craig Chandler | University Communication
Nebraska students hand out "Hate Will Never Win" T-shirts in the Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center before a campus rally in February 2018
Editor's Note — Chancellor Ronnie Green was among higher education leaders who responded to the national protests spurred by the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. The chancellor's message, which is below, was released May 30 via his Twitter account to connect immediately with students, faculty, staff and the broader community.

Chancellor Ronnie Green delivers his third State of the University address on Jan. 15. The speech examined the university's 150-year history and charted a course to 2025 and beyond.
Craig Chandler | University Communication
Chancellor Ronnie Green
Jane and I are sickened by the horrific injustice in Minneapolis, and the other forms of injustice that we know we don't see first-hand. Our hearts ache for the senseless loss of George Floyd and his family — and too many others.

Racism in any form is wrong and has no place in our lives, our communities, or institutions. Yet it remains.

Those of us entrusted to leading institutions must stay committed to truly listening, truly learning and to understanding our own bias. We need to encourage honest conversations, big and small, that can help bridge this divide and address deeply embedded histories of exclusion.

I hope and continue to believe that higher education, particularly institutions focused on access, can play a positive role in these conversations.

Review the chancellor's message and responses it received on Twitter.
A message of solidarity from UNLV President Marta Meana
MAY. 31, 2020
Dear colleagues and students,

It is with a heavy heart that I reach out to you in light of the appalling death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis Police. This is just the last in a far too long list of similar atrocities and there is only so much we can bear.

UNLV stands in solidarity with our African American faculty, staff, and students in denouncing this heinous act, in expecting accountability, and in demanding systemic change. The distress that this has caused in our community runs wide and deep. Racism is a far greater long-term threat to this country of ours than any virus. We need to confront it head on and together.

Universities have a responsibility to be beacons in the journey out of this unacceptable state of affairs. Let us double down on our efforts. We need to do this for each other. We need to do this for ourselves.

With sadness and hope,

Marta Meana, Ph.D.
UNLV President
I can’t breathe—again

As we gathered our thoughts at having to address, once again, the reality of the brutal death of an unarmed black man, George Floyd, we must categorically condemn the racism, abuse of power and brutality that led to his death. Mr. Floyd, who pleaded repeatedly for his life—I can’t breathe—eerily evocative of the equally violent death of Eric Garner and so many other black lives, is yet another deeply troubling lost life that ought to serve as a day of reckoning for all of us. As a nation, not only have we not resolved the historically deep wounds of structural racism, inequality, injustice and violence in our country, but those divisions, dramatically intensified in recent times, significantly challenge our democracy. We know from extensive evidence that hate and racial violence have increased to frightening levels in recent years. Let us also bear witness to the fact that in a few months we will be marking the one year anniversary of the El Paso mass killings, one of the deadliest anti-Latino and anti-emigrant hate crimes of recent years; a year ago, also, the shooting in the Poway synagogue took place; increasing attacks on mosques, and many others. These sobering realities must continue guiding our educational mandate on equity and inclusion through meaningful collaborations and much needed healing. Our deepest sense of solidarity to the family of Mr. George Floyd. Our particular support goes out to our Black students, faculty and staff in these somber moments.

Sincerely,

Marc A. Johnson
President
and
Eloisa Gordon-Mora
University Diversity and Inclusion Officer
President, Provost call for focus on core values in wake of George Floyd's death Minneapolis
June 1, 2020

Dear UNH Community,

Like virtually all Americans, we reacted with horror at the recent death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. This was particularly painful coming on the heels of the shooting of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. While the circumstances of these deaths were different, they all underscore the risks to black people interacting with police or simply going about their daily lives (as was demonstrated vividly by what happened to Christian Cooper in New York City). It is beyond belief that more than 50 years after the passage of the Civil Rights Act, nearly 30 years after Rodney King’s beating, six years after the shooting of Michael Brown and the choking death of Eric Garner, tragedies like this continue to occur. It is clear that, as former President Obama said in a recent statement, "If we want our children to grow up in a nation that lives up to its highest ideals, we can and must do better." Our hearts go out to our African American students, faculty, staff and alumni who are particularly affected by these events.

What is the responsibility of a public university like the University of New Hampshire in this situation? We have an obligation to fight ignorance, intolerance and bias, and to teach equality, respect and kindness—these are core values at UNH . The university is where we tackle societal challenges and work together to find solutions. This is founded on our mission to support the bedrock American principle that we are all created equal, and that all of us, regardless of any differences, should enjoy equal rights, opportunities and freedoms. It is fair to say that this passion for freedom is particularly acute in New Hampshire. We must ensure that our students and the whole UNH community deeply understand this shared commitment to our fellow citizens, to better understand when it has been violated. Our recent climate survey revealed that we have our own work to do in this area, which we will continue to do.

We cannot remain silent in the face of the trauma that these events inflict on marginalized communities across the country. We are united in our rejection of hate and intolerance, and call upon all in our community to support each other and those who are surely feeling the weight of these events. We all must renew our commitment to providing a safe and inclusive environment for everyone at UNH, including in interactions with UNH and Durham police. UNH Police Chief Paul Dean has worked extensively to build strong positive relationships with underrepresented students and has provided direction and training to his officers to do the same. Durham Police Chief Dave Kurz has done this as well.

As a research university, we also have the responsibility to address significant national issues. We will conduct a review of our research portfolio and look for opportunities to stimulate and support research on this important national problem. We hope that research can help us to identify practical steps that can be taken to protect the well-being and safety of all Americans while also improving our own racial understanding.

In the coming weeks, we will be meeting with and creating opportunities for faculty, staff and students to come together and share their input and guidance on responding to this challenge. Even in the face of the pandemic and the need to work and learn remotely, we must not lose sight of the importance of all aspects of our mission. In the aftermath of experiencing or witnessing trauma, it is normal to experience a range of feelings and emotions, such as shock, fear, sadness, anger, helplessness or guilt. For those members of our community who are feeling the trauma of this most acutely, we want to remind you that services continue to be available including: Psychological and Counseling Services (PACS); the Beauregard Center (formerly OMSA); Health and Wellness; and the Office of Community Equity and Diversity.

This is in so many ways a challenging time in America, but we as a people have risen to challenges before, and we will find ways to meet this one. We will be in touch with more detail on opportunities for education, research and conversation soon. In the meantime, our wish for all of you is health and safety.

James W. Dean, Jr.
President

Wayne Jones
Vice President and Provost
Leaders at The University of New Mexico have issued strong statements
condemning the brutal killing of George Floyd by police officers in Minnesota
on Memorial Day and the actions of those seeking to prompt further violence at
ensuing protests.
"Watching what is happening across our nation, I join the many voices who are
outraged and condemn not only the actions of the officers who killed George
Floyd, but police brutality against any and all communities of color," said UNM
President Garnett S. Stokes.
Following reports that extremist groups were using civil protests against police
brutality to further elicit violence, President Stokes stated that "peaceful protest
is a healthy way for people to express the hurt, fear and anger these types of
actions incite." She went on to say, "It is abhorrent that white nationalist groups
are taking cover behind legitimate national protests concerning George Floyd and
police brutality to provoke violence against black businesses and society at large."
UNM Police Chief Kevin McCabe issued the
following statement:
"What transpired in Minneapolis this past Memorial Day was appalling and
disgusting – in my opinion, this does not represent American law enforcement and
those who committed this heinous act or stood by and did nothing to intervene
lack the humanity, integrity, and honor to wear the badge of a police officer.
Their senseless actions have stained every professional law enforcement officer
who swore an oath to protect and defend the communities they serve but it is
also a clear call for all of us to stand against this type of abuse of power.
As a police chief, to see this type of brutality makes me sick but I am confident
that justice will prevail in this case. I, along with every member of The University
of New Mexico Police Department, not only strive to do our very best every day
to protect and serve those within our community but also be examples of police
officers that our community expects and deserves."
May 30, 2020
ALL UNIVERSITY MESSAGE
Message from campus leaders on events in Minneapolis
Carolina is committed to fostering an environment whereby the personal rights, lives and dignity of every member of our community matters.

Posted by University Communications, Saturday, May 30th, 2020
Bell Tower
The UNC Bell Tower on the campus of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill October 6, 2016. (Photo by Jon Gardiner/UNC-Chapel Hill)
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Pinterest
Share via Email
Print Friendly
Like so many of you, we have seen the recent events in Minneapolis where George Floyd, an unarmed Black man, died while in the custody of police officers. We denounce the actions of the police officers and support the decision to hold those responsible accountable.

This incident comes on the heels of similar acts of violence against Black people across the country. As we struggle to comprehend these events, we share your sadness, grief and frustration, and recognize the pain the recurrence of such senseless acts of violence and racism causes for so many members of our community. We add our voices to those calling for transparency and accountability.  

We are committed to fostering an environment whereby the personal rights, lives and dignity of every member of our university community matters. The events of this week underscore the important work of our Campus Safety Commission,and we are grateful for their continued efforts and collaborations with campus leadership.   

As we build our community together, even while many of us are apart, we hope that we all take some time to check in on each other. Next week, the University Office for Diversity and Inclusion, which seeks to unite our Carolina community and foster a sense of belonging and safety for all, will offer a space on its website for #YourVoiceMatters, where you may share your thoughts, perspectives and feelings anonymously. We hope you will participate.  

We recognize the stress these events cause members of our community, especially the Black community, and encourage anyone needing help to utilize the following  available resources. For students, you can contact the Office of the Dean of Students or Counseling and Psychological Services.  The Employee Assistance Program is available for faculty and staff.  

In solidarity and with unwavering resolve, 

Kevin M. Guskiewicz
Chancellor  

Robert A. Blouin
Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost 

Sibby Anderson Thompkins 
Special Assistant to the Chancellor and Provost
Interim Chief Diversity Officer 

George Battle
Vice Chancellor for Institutional Integrity and Risk Management 

David Perry
Associate Vice Chancellor and Chief of UNC Police 
Saturday, May 30, 2020
Dear Niner Nation,

Like so many of you and others around the nation, I was heartbroken by George Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on Monday night and the horrifying video of his final moments. The recent killings of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery are further examples of the systemic racial injustice that continues to plague our country.

I want to acknowledge the pain, trauma, and frustration that many of our students, faculty, and staff are feeling. These events have a powerful and personal impact on members of our community. Last night in Charlotte, we witnessed the community's unrest in response to the death of George Floyd as many people organized in protest of the ongoing racism against the Black community. 

I join with others to ask: What can I do? What can we do as a University that is committed to creating an equitable and safe environment for our students, faculty, and staff in one of the most diverse and vibrant urban cities in America?

As a community of educators and scholars, we hold a special responsibility to raise our voices to condemn the violence against Black people, other people of color, and other historically marginalized identities. It is up to us to lead, modeling civility, respect, and holding true to the values of diversity and inclusion that ensure all members of our community will thrive. At UNC Charlotte, I want us to question why incidents such as these occur, and what role we can play in creating an equitable and just world. We cannot accept apathy or indifference or silence; otherwise, we allow hatred, prejudice, and intolerance to grow.

One of the many special qualities of Niner Nation is the rich diversity of our community, feedback we consistently hear from students about why they love this University. For our African-American students, faculty, and staff, know that your Niner Nation family is here to support you. We always want to ensure that everyone feels welcome on campus, and that we are consistently providing a safe and inclusive environment.

If you need support during this time, please do not hesitate to reach out to the resources available to you. 

Counseling services are available to faculty and staff through the Employee Assistance Program and to students through the Christine F. Price Center for Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). These services will continue throughout the summer. Our Office of Identity, Equity and Engagement staff members are also available to support members of our community.  

The Counseling and Psychological Services Center is hosting a student-centered Healing and Empowerment Gathering on WebEx to develop self-care, coping strategies, and connection for Black students who have been impacted by racial injustice from 2 p.m. - 3:30 p.m., Thursday, June 4. You may register here. 

Unfortunately, as we know all too well, racism and bigotry will not end overnight. But we will never create a community and world where everyone is equally valued and protected unless we speak out, show up, and advocate for the rights of all.

Sincerely,

Chancellor Philip L. Dubois
Philip L. Dubois
Chancellor
We Must Stand Together – An Official Notice from the President
Monday, June 1, 2020

Dear UNT faculty and staff,

We are all deeply disturbed and saddened by the tragic events that led to the murder of George Floyd. Once again, we ask why an unarmed black man was killed by a police officer while colleagues looked on without intervening. People of color and white allies everywhere in our country have shown their shock and outrage through protests, and the collective rage people feel has led to more violent actions while we wait for answers. But no answers have been given. 

Thoughtful people everywhere want to see justice and racial equity, and we all hope and pray for an end to the bitter institutional racism to which we all bear witness. While there have been cries of condemnation for these horrific events, there has not been a cohesive national dialogue, and I fear the violent reactions we see are creating yet deeper divides. 

For some of our community members, these events feel all too familiar and there is concern that this could happen to them. Here in Denton, and at UNT, we are not immune to the challenges that the Black Community and law enforcement are facing. A former Black student was stopped at night last week by our campus police for not having a safety light on his bike. After our police confirmed that he had an outstanding warrant, this young man attempted to flee and was arrested after a brief struggle. This is an all too common scene in modern America and calls for all of us to do better as we negotiate the nexus of law enforcement and fear. 

In the fog of peaceful protests and with cities in flames, most of us are isolated from our normal campus connections and, lacking normal dialogue, we respond by listening to emotionally charged and often inaccurate social media. We take sides, and it becomes so easy to "like"or comment in ways that dehumanize those whose views don't match our own.

Before the COVID-19 crisis, we started to take a harder look at our culture, and the impact of discrimination and racism on our campus. That dialogue, and the healthy response to becoming a more intentionally inclusive campus, largely stopped as we took on yet another crisis. Today, I am calling on everyone in our community to show our caring and compassionate values. It is a time to come together – to listen – and to have the difficult and uncomfortable conversations we need to become the inclusive and caring community we aspire to be.

This week, I am inviting our community to rekindle these discussions. Our university will host two Black Lives Matter President's Virtual Town Halls with the first one set for students from 2 to 3:30 p.m. Friday, June 5. The second one is for faculty and staff and will be hosted from 2 to 3:30 p.m. Monday, June 8. The discussions will be framed around the three questions: How are we feeling? How does this relate to my experience at UNT? How can we move forward? Community members can ask questions during the event or send me questions in advance to untpresident@unt.edu.

As a higher education community, we want peace and racial justice as we continue honestly reckoning with our past. I hope you will join me and other campus leaders in this critical conversation that will help us return to campus as a stronger, more united community that celebrates our diversity, caring nature and commitment to a community where everyone feels equally valued.

Respectfully,

Neal Smatresk
UNT President
George Floyd’s tragic death cries out for justice and a recommitment to fight racism. Recalling the image of Father Hesburgh and Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. locked hand-in-hand in 1964, we pray, on this Feast of Pentecost: Come, Holy Spirit, inspire us to work for justice, solidarity and a healing of divisions." 
May 31, 2020

Ninety-nine years ago today, blood began to flow down Black Wall Street and the Tulsa Race Massacre ensued, marking one of the most tragic events in the history of our state and nation. And now, nearly a century later, we continue to live with the same violence and vitriol. The recent killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and George Floyd are stark examples of black lives lost due to senseless brutality. We know that racism in all of its forms, explicit and implicit, is never more unfair than when it leads to the needless loss of a life. To become the country we know we can be, we must honestly address the issues that underlie these societal divisions and make real, systemic change. I urge our entire OU family to lend support, advocacy, and love to the marginalized black members of our own community. Together, we are stronger.

Joseph Harroz, Jr.
President  
Recognize today’s challenges; provide comfort and care
June 1, 2020

Colleagues, 

If anything is certain in these very uncertain times, it’s that racism exists in our society.

So what does one say when it seems like there might not be anything one can do to immediately fix things? Under normal circumstances, we might hold one another or offer words of encouragement, anything to show that we care. We would be present with one another. Yet, we are denied that at this moment because of the COVID-19 pandemic.

A collection of recent events – from the newly launched investigation into the slaying of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia to the black birdwatcher in Central Park who was threatened by a white woman to the brutal killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis – have left many of us feeling hopeless, scared, and exhausted.

My request here is that we all, faculty in particular, provide extra flexibility for members of the community who are at their limit because of the ongoing inequities involving so many others. That these challenges around race are occurring in the face of the challenges we are seeing from the pandemic makes it even worse. It is OK to acknowledge our exhaustion, as the coronavirus has pushed our community hard, and we have risen to the occasion beyond what nearly anyone could have imagined.

We are exhausted, but we are resilient, and we are getting there. But the circumstances of the last few days, as well as the general climate around race and justice over the preceding years, decades, and indeed centuries brings into bright relief the continuing inequities within our society. The civil unrest around the George Floyd killing has ripped open the wounds and threatened to grind our exhaustion into despair.

What words can I offer to ameliorate these feelings? None that can authentically speak to the true feelings that only the lived experience of the individual can truly validate. Our faculty, staff, and students of color – particularly our black students – are feeling scared, angry, and they are questioning what the world is doing to address injustice.

Not enough. Never enough.

We each sit with our own thoughts at this moment. We cannot hug each other when we need it most. But what we can do is acknowledge that we are going through this together, and that we must support each other as we can. But we must also recognize that different members of the community will be suffering more than others, and we must recognize that that suffering is born from each individual’s experience and life path.

So, as we bring this term to a close, I request that all faculty recognize that students may be going through a particularly tough period that makes it difficult for them to focus on their schoolwork. As you know, we have already instituted a flexible pass/no-pass structure for all students in all courses. This should provide students with flexibility and solace as they finish out their work. However, I also ask all faculty to be very open if a student requests that they might need a little more time to finish off an assignment that is due this week and to do so without question.

Let’s also make sure we accommodate and care for each other. Our work this spring has required an unprecedented level of flexibility and generosity of spirit. I am very grateful for everyone’s hard work in making that generosity a hallmark of the UO community. Indeed, I sense that we have always felt it as one of our core principles. But now we can be assured that it is a rock upon which we will continue to mount a response to each and every challenge—and a rapidly changing world—together.

Sincerely,

Patrick Phillips
Provost and Senior Vice President
Statement on the death of George Floyd
May 30, 2020
Amy Gutmann, President

Once again our nation mourns. The tragic and senseless death of George Floyd is a vivid reminder of the inequalities and unacceptable indignities that so many of our citizens constantly endure. The events in Minneapolis this week should lead everyone to recognize how much more work our society must do to realize liberty and justice for all. As a nation we have much work to do.

While the entire Penn community weeps, and our hearts are filled with sadness for this senseless loss of life, we should remember the importance of Penn’s commitment to doing our part to create a more inclusive and mutually respectful environment and society free from discrimination and deprivation.

I especially want Penn’s African American students, faculty, and staff to know how much they and their contributions to our community are treasured. It is particularly important at this difficult time that Penn’s students of color know their University supports them, which we unequivocally do. While we may be apart physically at this point in time, we are truly together in spirit.

We all long for the day when we never again bear witness to such a needless death. Our prayers are for the Floyd family, and for a healing of our nation’s soul. Let all of us in the Penn community use this moment to recommit, from the deepest corners of our hearts, to creating a living and learning environment that is truly safe and welcoming for all.
Statement on Racial Injustice and the Death of George Floyd
June 2, 2020
Dear Members of the University Community: 

It is impossible to forget the image of George Floyd, gasping for air as a police officer who is sworn to protect and defend calmly kneels on his neck until he dies. It is both a shocking scene of violence that should never happen and a potent reminder that it continues to happen all the time.

The painful truth is that persistent and systemic racism continues to fuel a deep injustice toward African Americans. The familiarity of this tragedy has ignited widespread protests and demonstrations—not only across our country, but across the globe.

We are outraged because it is outrageous. How many times must we witness these blatant examples of injustice, hatred, brutality and discrimination before we resolve to change things?  

This is a time for demonstrating solidarity with our African American community. To the University of Pittsburgh’s African American students, faculty, staff and alumni: We stand with you in demanding better and are committed to working with you to make meaningful changes.    

Unfortunately, grief and anger are emotions too easily exploited. Some are happy to create confusion, sow conflict and incite violence and ultimately erode our fundamental rights to peaceably gather and demand real change. This, too, is a painfully familiar pattern. Against a rising toll of injury, death and recrimination, we stand to lose our solidarity—replacing it with ever-deepening divisions.  

Do we have to go down this road?

In this moment of raw grief and anger, we must plot a path forward. We must find ways to build bridges, listen and empathize—even when it is uncomfortable. And we must demand better of our leaders, holding them accountable by voting and pushing to reform the laws and institutions of our democracy. Working together, we have enormous power to realize change.

But this is also a time to turn the lens inward and consider our institution’s own role in perpetuating unfair structures and systems. A university is not an ivory tower but an extension of society—a place dedicated to advancing knowledge for everyone’s gain. Racism degrades our pursuit of true equality, liberty and justice, and it undermines our ability to create opportunity through teaching, research and service. Our university must become a better, more equitable place, and we can do more.

These local efforts may seem like small acts in the face of a national civil crisis, but they can catalyze powerful change. The University of Pittsburgh is a longstanding leader in our region. Yet, for all of our remarkable accomplishments, African Americans living within the Cathedral of Learning’s shadow are still confronting an alarming opportunity gap. We can expand our efforts to translate our work into practice and spur a local renaissance in our surrounding neighborhoods and communities.

Reshaping our university to be more diverse, inclusive and just—while also expanding our reach and impact in promoting social justice—is a significant effort, and we will need to resource and sustain this transformation over time. Because of this, I am putting our nearly complete strategic planning process—which aims to chart Pitt’s course over the next five years—on hold. This pause will give us time to incorporate specific strategies to strengthen our commitments to racial equity and justice. I will need your help in identifying the most promising initiatives in this final plan, and I hope you will participate.  

To jumpstart this work, we are scheduling and planning a number of opportunities to convene virtually so that we can share ideas, experiences and expertise related to eliminating racism and injustice near and far. In the days ahead, we must continue to stand in solidarity as we work to forge a better, more equitable future for all.  

Respectfully, 

Patrick Gallagher
Black Lives Matter: A GSO Perspective
Aerial view of the URI Narragansett Bay Campus
June 4, 2020
A statement from URI Graduate School of Oceanography Dean Bruce Corliss.
I am writing to follow up my statement last week in On the Waterfront should you not have had the opportunity to read it. The senseless death of George Floyd has created despair and anger across the country and, as the URI Senior Leadership Team stated in a recent email, is a reminder of the oppression and injustice still too prevalent in our society. The Graduate School of Oceanography and the University of Rhode Island are committed to a more just and equitable society and university community. I write to re-confirm that commitment to promote and respect diversity and justice for all within our campus and within the nation as we struggle to address systemic problems within our society and across the country.

The death of George Floyd and long-standing anti-black racism, together with a lack of progress to address the roots of these crimes, have led to frustration and anger generated by police brutality, racial injustice and a culture among some that condones violence. This anger is also based on societal and structural racism that has pervaded the fabric of America. Societal racism includes inequalities in income/wealth distribution, availability of health care and affordable health insurance, and educational opportunities, and is perpetuated not only by individuals and institutions, but by lawmakers passing legislation that precludes or limits opportunity to minority communities and, in particular, to Black Americans. Politics matter. These societal and financial inequities have existed for a very long time, and the lack of progress to address these inequities is at the core of the problem that the country faces today.

GSO has actively made efforts to attract minority faculty and students in general, and specifically African Americans, to join GSO and will continue to do so. In addition, professional societies have fostered and reinforced the need to increase underrepresented minorities in the sciences, and in particular Black Americans. But, clearly we as an institution and a discipline must hold ourselves accountable and do better. It is time to reflect upon and then redouble our efforts to ensure that current and prospective faculty, students and staff of color feel that they belong and are supported.

The GSO faculty voted last year to remove the GRE test requirement in graduate applications, as this has been shown to be a bias against minority students. This year a NOAA proposal was submitted to recruit and provide support to summer students from the University of Maryland Eastern Shore, a Historically Black College and University (HBCU), as part of our CINAR effort, an effort that follows a commitment we made last year when we submitted the Cooperative Institute proposal. We also reached out this year to another HBCU institution, Elizabeth City University in North Carolina, to inquire about their possible interest in joining the East Coast Oceanographic Consortium with the goal of developing a pipeline of underrepresented students at GSO and other ECOC institutions. In an effort to increase the diversity of future oceanographers, GSO’s NSF-REU program (SURFO) is committed to recruiting students from underrepresented groups. Recruiting at HBCUs and Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs), attending conferences focused on scientists from underrepresented groups (SACNAS) and forming a partnership with the Puerto Rico Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation have begun to effect change. Last summer, half of our SURFO student participants were from underrepresented groups. We look forward to next week when a new cohort begins, with almost half the young scientists from underrepresented groups. 

These efforts do not address the inequities and injustices that presently exist with structural racism in America, but are examples of our commitment to recruit and welcome Black students, students of color and other minorities to oceanography with the goal of promoting equity within the science community.

This is the time to address questions of inequity, justice and the rights of all individuals in our society. It is a time for reflection and for discussion, but it is also a time to develop and execute plans to address these issues. Recognizing that the scarcity of Black oceanographers is a result of an unjust K-12 educational system, a key goal of GSO’s outreach efforts is to prioritize access for underrepresented communities to ocean science. GSO will continue to spark partnerships with under-resourced schools throughout Rhode Island and minority serving institutions across the country. We are emboldened to strengthen these efforts.

As part of that effort, GSO will help make meaningful partnerships with minority serving institutions within the East Coast Oceanographic Consortium to develop opportunities for Black and minority students. This summer, we will also share on the GSO website opportunities for discussion on systemic racism offered by the URI’s Office of Community, Equity and Diversity.

There have been many thoughtful statements across the country that address recent disturbing racist acts and the need to confront racial injustice and the culture that fosters it. I would like to share one by Dr. Sudip S.Parikh, CEO of the AAAS, that is an insightful statement about the need to come together in the science community to address the challenges that we are all facing. 

GSO is committed to moving forward in a thoughtful and meaningful way in the days and years to come. Please reach out to me and other GSO leaders if you would like to express concerns or suggestions.

Sincerely,

Bruce H. Corliss
Dean, URI Graduate School of Oceanography
The University of Rochester
Search Rochester.edu
Office of the President
About Sarah Mangelsdorf Messages Contact Us Past Presidents Inauguration 
 BACK TO SARAH C. MANGELSDORF MESSAGES
Flying the University Flag at Half-staff to Honor George Floyd
JUNE 4, 2020
The past months have been challenging for all of us, and the last few weeks especially have laid bare the challenges that we as a society and as a University are facing with respect to the blight of systemic racism and racial injustice. The leadership of this institution is committed to candid conversations, to listening, and to real and effective action to address the concerns of our black students, faculty, staff, and alumni and their allies. And we recognize that this must be a shared commitment. We will be sending a broader message on this essential topic shortly.

Today, we are flying the University of Rochester flag on the Eastman Quadrangle and at the Medical Center at half-staff to commemorate today’s memorial service for George Floyd and as a step to demonstrating our public commitment to anti-racism in every area of this institution. We are all feeling the anguish of injustice today. I stand with you in sorrow and anger, and look forward to joining with you in doing the work that must be done.

Sincerely,

Sarah C. Mangelsdorf
President

FOR: StudentsParents & FamiliesFacultyStaffAlumniLocal Community
Text Only Contact Us Newscenter Calendar Futurity
River Campus (mailing address): 500 Joseph C. Wilson Blvd., Rochester, NY 14627

River Campus (GPS/maps): 252 Elmwood Ave., Rochester, NY

Medical Center: 601 Elmwood Ave., Rochester, NY 14642

Eastman School: 26 Gibbs St., Rochester, NY 14604

Maps & Directions

FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagramLinkedInTumblrFuturityMore social
EMERGENCY COPYRIGHT ACCESSIBILITY NONDISCRIMINATION & TITLE IX© University of Rochester 1996-2020
A MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT BOB CASLEN
May 31, 2020

With heavy hearts, we mourn the horrific killing of George Floyd at the hands of a police officer while three other officers stood by in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Our thoughts go out to Floyd's family and to the families of all those who have been the victims of violent murders fueled by racism and hatred in our country. These events are a stark reminder of the dark divisions that continue to run through our society, the legacy of a dark past that we have not yet fully reconciled. We must acknowledge these divisions and commit to becoming a more just and equitable society.

We stand in solidarity with the African American community, as these events have only compounded the sense of grief, fear, and loss brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. Here as well, we are reminded of the systemic biases that shape our realities. It is our collective responsibility to challenge these institutional inequities and to demand better for ourselves and for future generations.

As Gamecocks, let us be leaders in these efforts. Our Carolinian Creed calls on us to respect the dignity of all persons, to respect the rights and property of others, to discourage bigotry, while striving to learn from differences in people, ideas, and opinions. Violence and hateful rhetoric are not reflective of these values. If we are to begin the process of healing the wounds of racism, hate and bigotry that have brought us to this current tipping point, we must engage one another in thoughtful dialogue about our individual and collective experiences. We must do the work of educating ourselves about the harmful impact of racism and discrimination in all of its manifestations.

Anti-discrimination and anti-harassment training are currently provided to UofSC faculty and staff and required of all students who are new to the Columbia campus. And multiple units are engaged in advancing diversity and inclusion initiatives across our campus. However, given this pivotal moment in which we find ourselves, we will intensify these efforts to ensure that we are equipping our students, faculty and staff with the tools needed to effectively navigate the current tensions in our society. To this end, we are assembling a team to work on the implementation of a new diversity module that will be required of all UofSC freshmen as part of their orientation process beginning in the 2020-2021 academic year. And we will amplify the training available to all students, faculty and staff to ensure that we have the resources needed to foster a campus culture that is reflective of our Creed.

In his 1963 "Letter from a Birmingham Jail,"Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. acknowledged the "interrelatedness of all communities and states,"noting that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny."Let us turn our anger into action, demanding justice where there is injustice, peace where there is violence, and love where there is hate. Let the suffocation of this moment be the impetus for change.

Campus Resources:

To report incidents of bias or hate, submit a Bias and Hate Incident Form

UofSC Counseling & Psychiatry: 803-777-5223 

UofSC Police Department: 803-777-4215

 

Tracey L. Weldon
Interim Chief Diversity Officer, Office of the Provost
Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences

Bob Caslen
President                                                                               
Message from USF President Steven C. Currall
MAY 30, 2020UNIVERSITY NEWS
To Members of the USF Community:

I believe I speak for the entire University of South Florida community when I express our deep sadness over recent events in Minneapolis and around the country. The deaths of two black men, George Floyd in Minneapolis and Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, should prompt us to pause and think about how racism impacts all of our lives.

Although neither of those individuals were affiliated with the University of South Florida, events such as this have a powerful impact on people of every background and in every community.  The impact is magnified in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has so badly shaken us all.

As we work to help each other understand what has happened -- if we can ever truly understand -- I find myself reflecting on the Principles of Community we aspire to at USF;  to treat each other with respect and dignity, refrain from displays of inappropriate anger or intimidating conduct, shun epithets or abusive language, find effective means to disagree, and to persuade and to inform through dialogue.

For our students, faculty and staff, I want to remind them of the resources available through the university’s Office of Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the USF Counseling Center. I urge you to seek out their support.

I believe we must support and care for each other during times like these and not forget that each of us is empowered to stand up to injustice whenever and wherever it occurs.

Thank you.

Steve Currall

Steven C. Currall, Ph.D.
President and Professor
University of South Florida
Note to Community from President Folt
May 31, 2020

Dear Trojan Community,

I write today, hoping you and your families are well and safe, yet knowing that many of you are not; your hearts are aching, and you are searching for answers, actions, and hope. The horrific deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and so many others, together with the demonstrations and unrest sweeping our nation are tearing at us all.  

These violent acts come at a time when our world has already been profoundly disrupted by COVID-19. And many of those hit the hardest are people of color, particularly African Americans – the very same people in communities already burdened by a history of prejudice, poverty, and especially racism.  

Many of you have told me that you are feeling sad, angry, desperate and despairing as you face such grave injustices and the escalation of tensions, and you are trying to find a way forward.

It weighs heavily on all of us. But we are Trojans, united as a university dedicated to the fundamental principles of equality and inclusion, education, and discovery for the good of humanity. We can make a positive difference, as we have for more than 100 years.

I don’t have the answers today, but we will continue to seek them together. I know that we can effect change – in our community, our city, and our nation. Now, more than ever, we need to rely on each other and help each other and our neighbors through these times. We are a community strengthened by the diversity that you bring – we are the students who want to change the world, the faculty dedicated to inspiring young leaders, the staff who keep the university running, the healthcare workers on the front lines, the social workers, the business leaders, the community organizers, the creators, entrepreneurs, teachers, and scholars our nation needs, and so much more. We must be there to support our communities. And, we know we can.

This moment is our call to action. It will be challenging to confront directly issues like racism in our community, but we must. We have started discussions with our student, faculty, staff, and alumni organizations, our civic leaders and our neighbors in the community. We recognize the need for continued conversations around policing, and our chief of the USC Department of Public Safety will be partnering with our campus and broader community to find collective answers to persistent inequities. We will engage you to break down silos that separate us, encourage thoughtful debate, and protect the dignity of every individual in our community. Together, we will stand for justice and embrace a culture of respect for all.

With respect and admiration,

Carol L. Folt
President

Adobe PDF version
His Name is George Floyd
May 30, 2020
We will step forward and show the world what kindness, equity, and inclusion for all people can look like

George Floyd. His name is George Floyd and he should be alive today. Sadly, the list of black people in America subjected to violence is long and getting longer. We grieve for their moms, dads, spouses, sons, daughters, brothers, sisters, grandparents whose loss is unimaginable. We grieve for their friends and neighbors and their community. I condemn brutality in all its forms, but it is most egregious in the hands of those who have taken an oath to protect.

My heart aches for so many as senseless acts of racism and violence continue. The pain and fear are evident in the protests, media, and conversations. The pain and fear are real for so many members of our campus community. We should all be angry, and for many anger has been replaced with exhaustion.

We must do better. Vol is a Verb, and action is important. We will continue the hard work to create a campus where everyone matters and belongs. Where anyone can study, work, learn, teach, jog, and live their daily life without fear. Where education becomes the great equalizer for anyone who wants it. Creating an environment for all Vols to succeed is a responsibility we all share.

Many groups have been working for weeks on making our campus safe for the return of students in the fall—safe from COVID-19. Some ask how is that in 2020 we still face the need to make sure that students, faculty, and staff are safe from racism. Black friends and colleagues have expressed to me that they are tired of having this conversation only to have it followed by another disgusting display of racism. We all need to join together to carry the torch of safety, dignity, respect, and human rights for everyone. We will do both of these things—plan for a fall safe from the coronavirus, and also plan for a future at this university where everyone feels safe and respected, where we have achieved our goals of being a place where everyone matters and belongs.

I will be convening members of our campus—students, faculty, staff, UTPD—in a conversation about how we pull together, support one another, and create the campus we want to have. I will work in partnership with student, faculty, and staff representatives to listen, learn, and take action. At a time when we are separated by distance, it is more important than ever to be united in commitment and support for one another. Take time to check on your friends and colleagues who might be having a difficult time. They are in pain and they need to know we are here for them.

Volunteers step forward in leadership and service. We will step forward and show the world what kindness, equity, and inclusion for all people can look like.

Donde Plowman signature

 

 

Donde Plowman
Chancellor
Dear UTA Community,

I am writing with a shared sense of shock, fear, outrage and sadness as we reflect upon the senseless killing of George Floyd as well as recent incidents of hatred, inequality and ensuing violence. This touches me deeply as it brings back scarred memories of years of racism and bullying I endured during my youth simply because of my ethnicity. I am forever grateful to my adopted country that has allowed me to heal my wounds and pursue my dreams.

Now, more than ever, it is time that we renew our own commitment to and uphold the values set forth in UTA's Principles of Community. The basis for our UTA Community is mutual respect "…members of our community build trust by finding ways to communicate with one another respectfully. With civil discourse, our other principles will follow. Therefore, we will listen, not just to hear, but to try and understand."

Our nation and our society face tremendous challenges in overcoming racism, discrimination and injustice. As scholars and students, teachers and mentors, I believe each of us at UTA has our own role in making a difference, changing all that is broken and accentuating the good I personally have experienced.

As Dr. Martin Luther King stated, "One of the great liabilities of history is that all too many people fail to remain awake through great periods of social change…Today, our very survival depends on our ability to stay awake, to adjust to new ideas, to remain vigilant and to face the challenge of change."

Let us commit ourselves to act with fairness, justice and mutual respect for all.

Sincerely yours,

Teik C. Lim, Ph.D.

President ad interim

#UTAUnited
Turbulent and Difficult Times
June 1, 2020

Dear UT Community, 

This isn't the first letter I'd planned to write as interim President of The University of Texas at Austin. I had a series of welcome messages set to go out today. But they didn't anticipate or acknowledge the events of the past few days and the pain those events have caused for so many — so I had to start over. 

Today's transition comes during a turbulent and difficult time. We are experiencing widespread outrage, anger, sadness and reflection here in Austin, throughout Texas and across our country. The senseless killing of George Floyd and the ensuing protests have gripped the nation. As I watch these events unfold, I feel for those who are in pain and am acutely aware that we must continue our struggle for meaningful and enduring change to overcome acts of racism and violence that corrode our community.

These challenges come as we are already responding to the COVID-19 crisis, which has become so much more than a life-threatening disease. It has paused or disrupted many of the core elements of our daily lives, forcing students to adjust to learning remotely and a different market for internships and jobs; requiring faculty and staff members to work in new, less comfortable ways; threatening many individuals' ability to keep their jobs and earn a living; and impacting our health care and education systems.

As we navigate these difficult times, I am reminded of just how critical The University of Texas at Austin is for our community, state, nation and the entire world.

UT has always been a special place to me, as a student, faculty member and dean of the McCombs School of Business. Now more than ever, I see that the creation and dissemination of knowledge are the most effective antidotes for injustice, inequality and intolerance, and for the advancement and improvement of our society. And that's what we do at UT.

We say, "What starts here changes the world."Those starts and changes don't just happen. They are the result of actions — large and small, as individuals and in teams — by our students, faculty, staff and alumni.

Without question, 2020 has not been the year any of us wanted it to be. We have seen political dysfunction, a global pandemic, economic distress, racial tension — and it is only June 1. In facing these struggles and uncertainty, we need people who can think creatively, develop workable solutions and solve difficult problems. The University of Texas has always had a mandate to be a "university of the first class."Part of that mandate means that this university and the people of this community will take an active role in addressing the critical problems our society is facing.

As Longhorns, when we are tested, we don't shy away. When we are challenged, we don't fade into the background and shrink from our responsibility. We come together and draw upon the diverse range of talent, energy and passion that we have on the Forty Acres, to take on the most important and difficult issues of our time. I look forward to working with you to do that in the days and months ahead.

Sincerely yours,

Jay Hartzell
Interim President

The University of Texas at Dallas - Office of the President
May 31, 2020

Over the last few days, I have heard from concerned students and colleagues about the horrific footage of George Floyd’s killing in Minneapolis.

I have watched the outrage over this tragedy from cities around the country. I have seen the emotional outpouring as people demand change in our society, and I have personally felt great anguish watching a defenseless man die while begging for help from those who are sworn to protect us.

As one who believes in the American ideal, this week has been difficult to comprehend. I know that I am not alone in questioning how our society can move forward when too many people are denied their rights. And so terribly often, those treated the most violently have been black.

Change must occur, and each one of us must play a role in effecting this change.

As president of UT Dallas, I reinforce the values of community, diversity and tolerance we share on our campus. I stress the imperative that we must live these values daily, and I emphasize the resolve we must have to honor this commitment now and into the future.

We, at UT Dallas, recommit to providing a safe, welcoming environment to all people, regardless of race, religion, ethnic origin, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation.

Each one of us — staff, faculty and students — must take these principles into our core if we are to have any hope of effecting change in our society. I ask that we all recommit ourselves so that, as Comets, we live the values we hope become reality for all people across our nation.

Let UT Dallas be a beacon of decency to the rest of the nation.

Sincerely,

Richard C. Benson
President
Eugene McDermott Distinguished University Chair of Leadership


The University of Texas at Dallas
800 W. Campbell Rd, Richardson, Texas 75080-3021

View this in your browser.
Turbulent and Difficult Times
June 1, 2020

Dear UT Community, 

This isn't the first letter I'd planned to write as interim President of The University of Texas at Austin. I had a series of welcome messages set to go out today. But they didn't anticipate or acknowledge the events of the past few days and the pain those events have caused for so many — so I had to start over. 

Today's transition comes during a turbulent and difficult time. We are experiencing widespread outrage, anger, sadness and reflection here in Austin, throughout Texas and across our country. The senseless killing of George Floyd and the ensuing protests have gripped the nation. As I watch these events unfold, I feel for those who are in pain and am acutely aware that we must continue our struggle for meaningful and enduring change to overcome acts of racism and violence that corrode our community.

These challenges come as we are already responding to the COVID-19 crisis, which has become so much more than a life-threatening disease. It has paused or disrupted many of the core elements of our daily lives, forcing students to adjust to learning remotely and a different market for internships and jobs; requiring faculty and staff members to work in new, less comfortable ways; threatening many individuals' ability to keep their jobs and earn a living; and impacting our health care and education systems.

As we navigate these difficult times, I am reminded of just how critical The University of Texas at Austin is for our community, state, nation and the entire world.

UT has always been a special place to me, as a student, faculty member and dean of the McCombs School of Business. Now more than ever, I see that the creation and dissemination of knowledge are the most effective antidotes for injustice, inequality and intolerance, and for the advancement and improvement of our society. And that's what we do at UT.

We say, "What starts here changes the world."Those starts and changes don't just happen. They are the result of actions — large and small, as individuals and in teams — by our students, faculty, staff and alumni.

Without question, 2020 has not been the year any of us wanted it to be. We have seen political dysfunction, a global pandemic, economic distress, racial tension — and it is only June 1. In facing these struggles and uncertainty, we need people who can think creatively, develop workable solutions and solve difficult problems. The University of Texas has always had a mandate to be a "university of the first class."Part of that mandate means that this university and the people of this community will take an active role in addressing the critical problems our society is facing.

As Longhorns, when we are tested, we don't shy away. When we are challenged, we don't fade into the background and shrink from our responsibility. We come together and draw upon the diverse range of talent, energy and passion that we have on the Forty Acres, to take on the most important and difficult issues of our time. I look forward to working with you to do that in the days and months ahead.

Sincerely yours,

Jay Hartzell
Interim President
President Eighmy addresses UTSA on standing together for social justice
President Eighmy addresses UTSA on standing together for social justice
JUNE 2, 2020 — Editor’s note: The following message was sent via email today from President Taylor Eighmy to all students, faculty and staff:

The recent incidents of racism, violence and killing of Black citizens in our country are a stark reminder of how we must rid deeply rooted bigotry and injustices from our society. I am horrified by these senseless killings and—as I said in my statement over the weekend—I find myself feeling deeply frustrated by the lack of progress made by our country since civil rights activists fought for equal rights 56 years ago. The impact of COVID-19 on communities of color is yet another heart-wrenching example of the reality of ongoing national systemic inequities.

We cannot let the deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor go unnoticed or unaddressed. Nor can we ignore the countless other Black people and other people of color who have lost their lives to senseless acts of violence. We must call out and condemn these racist acts, stand together in the fight for justice, speak out and enact change. On behalf of UTSA’s entire leadership team I want to convey to Black students, faculty and staff in the Roadrunner community that we see you and we will continue to fight alongside you. Black Lives Matter.

I believe public research universities have a responsibility to be at the forefront of change for our country. I believe we can serve as models for diversity, equity and inclusion. I believe we are all born with the same potential—but not given the same opportunities. I believe education is a great equalizer and has the power to change lives and create a more just and equitable society. I believe we have an obligation to ensure that Black students and other underrepresented students feel welcome in our inclusive community, experience a powerful educational journey and graduate prepared to change the world.

We have our own work to do to be exemplary in building an environment of inclusive excellence on our campus. Much work has been done on this front in the past year and much more is planned, including upcoming training sessions in August on addressing racial bias, anti-racist efforts and microagressions. We recognize the need for continued conversations around policing, building on Fair and Impartial Policing training implemented by our UTSA PD last year. I hold myself—and UTSA’s entire leadership team—accountable for continuing to move beyond acknowledging the issues and to provide spaces for our community to fight for justice in effective ways.

Tomorrow’s community gathering, hosted by the Multicultural Student Center for Equity and Justice, is an opportunity to support our grieving and angry community. For any of you who may need additional support, please reach out:

For students, UTSA Counseling and Mental Health Services offers same-day or next-day phone and video counseling sessions.
For faculty and staff, counseling services are available through the Employee Assistance Program.
I encourage all of you—the entire Roadrunner community—to take time to process, take care of one another and take action to move our nation forward.


Diversity and Inclusion: Recognizing our Shortcomings, Working to Improve
Over the past few days, we were made aware of social media comments made by a few students that are racist, offensive and harmful to our community. We are appalled and disheartened that any member of the NC State community would choose to make such abhorrent statements.

To say the words and actions in those posts stand in complete opposition to NC State’s values is an understatement.

As a public institution, NC State is bound by privacy laws such that we cannot share information about individual students or the specifics of investigations. We know that many will not be satisfied with this response, but please know these incidents are being addressed.

At this challenging time across our nation, and in our own community, we want to be clear where NC State leadership stands: We stand against and condemn white supremacy, racial injustice and all forms of racism and discrimination. NC State’s Black students, faculty and staff deserve a campus culture where they feel safe, supported, respected and valued. We are committed to doing all we can to protect, promote and advance diversity, equity and inclusion at NC State.

These incidents remind us that we fall far short of where we aim to be. We need to do more and do better. As a Wolfpack, we must remain united and committed – every one of us must actively contribute to help ensure a more diverse and inclusive environment. And, we need to be innovative and try new ideas and approaches to embrace and advance diversity and inclusion.

We may not get it right every time, but we are committed to listening to the voices and lived experiences of those impacted and challenging ourselves to do the work necessary to build a more just and equitable NC State.

As one first step, in the coming academic year, we will require every student, faculty and staff member to complete diversity and inclusion learning modules. This will include every member of Cabinet as well as all of the deans, directors and department heads of the university.

As another step, we are assembling an interdisciplinary team to evaluate NC State’s policies, examine every opportunity to strengthen them against racism and discriminatory behavior, and modify, where allowed by law, to bolster our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion.

When students return in the fall, we commit to working with them to collaboratively review NC State’s Code of Student Conduct and examine opportunities for improving and strengthening the code, where allowed by law. We will also work with students to review, update and improve our university’s statement of values. When complete, we will expect every student at NC State to uphold these values that define the inclusive and supportive culture that we seek for our community.

Additionally, when students, faculty and staff return to campus, we want to move to a place of dialogue and partnership to have difficult but necessary conversations, better gauge what is needed, what is possible, and working together, what we’re going to do about it. We are working on a plan to facilitate those discussions.

These are not the last things we will do, and they are not nearly enough to overcome the many challenges related to actively addressing both the individual acts of racism and the system of racism to foster belonging for all. But they are a few next steps, and we are fully committed to doing more to keep moving forward.

We are a university that is about transforming lives and making the world a better place. This mission is more important today than ever before. We have much work yet to do, work that will require humility, empathy, resilience, hope and engagement. We remain committed to striving today and every day to ensure a university climate that embraces, values and advances a diverse, inclusive and supportive campus culture.

W. Randolph Woodson | Chancellor
Warwick Arden | Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost
Charles Maimone | Vice Chancellor for Finance and Administration
Brad Bohlander |Chief Communications Officer, Associate Vice Chancellor of University Communications
Boo Corrigan | Director of Athletics
Marc I. Hoit | Vice Chancellor for Information Technology
Kevin Howell | Vice Chancellor for External Affairs, Partnerships and Economic Development
Sheri L. Schwab | Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity
Brian Sischo | Vice Chancellor for University Advancement
P.J. Teal | Secretary of the University and Assistant to the Chancellor
Mladen Vouk | Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation
Marie Williams | Associate Vice Chancellor for Human Resources
Lisa Zapata | Interim Vice Chancellor for the Division of Academic and Student Affairs
Message from President Cockett
May 31, 2020

USU President Noelle Cockett

Full Size
Dear USU students, faculty and staff,

The tragic death of George Floyd in Minneapolis was extremely disturbing to watch. The national protests and unrest that have followed prompt me today to publicly reaffirm Utah State University’s and my own personal commitment to inclusion and respect in our Aggie family and in those communities we reach every day.

Clearly there are many troubling, systemic issues confronting us as a nation, and I think these highly volatile moments are opportune times for us to look inside ourselves to see how we can personally help address and alleviate injustice. These are the times for our Aggie Family to join together and reflect about our commitment to USU’s Principles of Community – our institutional Aggie pledge to diversity, human dignity and social responsibility.

Please join with me today as I reassert one of my critical obligations as university president: to cultivate an environment of respectful engagement and respectful discourse at every level of our society. Thank you.

Respectfully,

Noelle E. Cockett

President, Utah State University
27
CONTACT
Tim Vitale
Associate Vice President for Strategic Communications
University Marketing and Communications
 435-797-1356
 tim.vitale@usu.edu

ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
- Aggies Think, Care, Act
TOPICS
    
Post your Comment
We welcome your comments but your submission will NOT be published online. Your comment or question will be forwarded to the appropriate person. Thank you.
Justice, Inclusion and Humanity – May 30
 June 1, 2020
TU students, faculty and staff,

This past week has brought a heightened sense of shock and sadness as we witnessed an unarmed man being deprived of his rights, his dignity and, eventually, his very breath. George Floyd’s death was captured on video and shared with a world already on edge.

Whether it’s on a Minneapolis street in 2020 or in a Tulsa elevator in 1921, the legacy of racism is deep, pervasive and intolerable.

You, the members of our university community, have a choice. You can choose to recognize bias – in yourself and others – and have the personal courage to call it out. You can be vigilant and vocal. You can be an agent for positive change and an advocate for those at risk of being marginalized. Although we are apart, we are not alone. We are stronger together, and we must live our commitment to justice, inclusion and humanity.

Janet K. Levit
Interim President
A Message About Grieving and Searching for Answers Together
My Dearest UVM: I write to you to share what is on my heart. I am bursting with so many emotions, I need to share. As I wipe away tears that keep forming in the corners of my eyes, know I am thinking of all of you, my UVM family. I really appreciate the calls and texts from so many of you who wanted to make sure I was okay. I am also grateful for the calls where you shared your ideas, anger, and grief with me. Like many of you, I watched in horror the video showing the death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police officers. I sobbed for George as if he was my own son or brother lying on the cold, hard concrete. I then wept for Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and Tony McDade, and soon I was crying for the many who have tragically lost their lives over the years because of racism and inequality. 


Unfortunately, the killing of black men or women by police is not new; it is so common that initially many turned to the usual responses: hashtags, T-shirts, flags, and national leaders condemning this horrific act. Still, George Floyd's homicide seems different to me and so many Blacks or African Americans. Was it the cold, hard concrete he died on, the cry for his mama as he took his last breaths, the plea from so many to help him that was ignored, or was this just the final straw? I continue to reflect on why this tragedy has become a global call for change and action. Regardless, this hurts me to the core. I am exhausted. My Black and African American family and friends are exhausted. We are sick and tired of being sick and tired.

As an African American woman who is also the University's Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, I am yearning for justice, looking for accountability, praying for solutions, and wishing we could be together to comfort one another. This crime against humanity, coupled with the impact of COVID-19 on us as a society has forever changed us. Exactly how we let these events change us, is up to us. For me, I am choosing to remain hopeful and draw upon my faith as I push away my tears, so I can see a better future. 

Despite the challenges we face and the fear we may feel, let us redouble our efforts and insist on systemic reform. I know we cannot take on everything, but we can have an impact at UVM, and in the communities where we serve that will branch out to advance critical social and cultural efforts everywhere. We must use our educational platform to share and enhance knowledge, understanding, ideas and solutions that not only address issues of prejudice and discrimination, but also transform lives for generations to come. We must endeavor to inspire professionals who will be more just, equitable, compassionate, and anti-racist.

As we grieve and search for answers together, I ask that you look after one another, in particular for those of us that are Black or African American. I ask that you condemn any behavior that diminishes the humanity of others. This vicious cycle must be broken because if not now when? The world around us seems to be exploding right now, and we all deserve better. I know I could say so much more. This will not be the last time you hear from me. This work of racial equity has been my life's work, and I need help now more than ever. I need partners. Let us collectively work together and steadfastly to confront and address generations of institutionalized racism. 

I am going to start by hosting a Teach-In to help catalyze action. In addition, I intend to create digital "Brave Spaces,"to support and lift up voices from within our University that are committed to this work. I am asking you to join me, plan with me, lead with me, and when I reach out for your help, please answer my call in both your words and your actions.

This is my single story, so please listen to others who have stories they are willing to share. Your voice matters, and no one can take that away from you unless you give it to them.

In Solidarity for Change and Peace,

Wanda
                                 
Wanda Heading-Grant
Vice President
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

PUBLISHED06-03-2020
WANDA HEADING-GRANT, VP DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCL
The University of Vermont Burlington, VT 05405 (802) 656-3131Contact UVM | Accessibility | Privacy/Terms of Use | © 2020
Dear VCU and VCU Health community,

For several days, I have watched crowds of people across the nation and here in Richmond express their anger and frustration over distressing, horrific events against African Americans in our country, including the recent killings of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Breonna Taylor in Louisville, and Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia.

What I see again and again is a very public manifestation of American history and, indeed, America’s present. It is impossible to comprehend centuries of horrifying injustice against minorities in this nation, particularly African Americans. Yet, even in 2020, your skin color still influences your social mobility and vitality even more so than where you were educated, live, or work. In America, it is still far too easy for those with privilege and prejudice to undo the hard-earned successes of others, particularly racial minorities. Individual, institutional, and structural racism is still our tragic reality.

We must do better. We must recognize and respect the dignity and humanity in each of us.

This also calls for us to remain mindful of the communities we share. The protests over the past few days on and near VCU’s Monroe Park Campus have resulted in damage to our shared community, including broken windows and doors, graffiti, damaged vehicles, and debris fires. I am grateful to our many employees who have responded quickly to make repairs and keep everyone on our campus safe to live, learn, and heal.

We will work together to fix what’s broken here. We must fix what has been broken in our communities across this nation for decades. 

Let’s commit to repairing broken systems that serve to create mistrust in government and law enforcement. Let’s resolve to make equitable and fair the distribution of justice. Let’s pledge to reconcile our own struggles between who we are and who we strive to become as individuals and as communities.

As we continue to process what is happening across our nation—especially the very public violence against African Americans and to our shared communities—the one thing that makes sense is that we can no longer afford to stand by idly. None of us is immune. We must stand to change the systems we have created. We must continue to empower and support our faculty, staff, students, alumni, and neighbors to change the world by voting, and by making equity and inclusion accessible everywhere. We must think about our shared humanity in more enlightened ways, because quite frankly, black lives must matter if we are to ever realize the potential of VCU’s shared community and the vast privileges of belonging to a global community.

Sincerely,

Michael Rao, Ph.D.

President

VCU and VCU Health System

21st-Century University, Community, To VCU
Tagged Ahmaud Arbery, Black Lives Matter, Breonna Taylor, George Floyd

Skip to main contentSkip to search
VIRGINIA TECH™HOME
Universal Access Toggle
APPLY
VISIT
GIVE

SHOP

Resources for

VIRGINIA TECH DAILY

MENU

SEARCH
Virginia Tech Daily/ Articles/ 2020/ May/ A statement from President Tim Sands and Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity Menah Pratt-Clarke
Explore
A statement from President Tim Sands and Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity Menah Pratt-Clarke
May 31, 2020

Aerial view of Virginia Tech Drillfield
Dear Hokies,

As we reflect on a tumultuous week in the United States – surpassing 100,000 in the official count of deaths ascribed to COVID-19 and the boiling over of frustration and anger over the tragic and unnecessary deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and George Floyd - we do so from the relative safety of our quiet Blacksburg homes. Jarring images and videos taken by some of our own children on the streets of Chicago and Washington, D.C., bring home the immediacy of the crisis. It saddens us to know that many in our Virginia Tech community have lost loved ones, or have been traumatized by the events of the past weeks.

Dwelling on images, dramatic events, and counts can distract from the common truths that the pandemic and race-driven murders reveal. As great as our ideals of freedom, justice, and equality may be, the reality is persistently and pervasively falling short of what we say we are all about. From the marked disparities in COVID-19 illness and death across racial, ethnic, and economic divides, to the unrelenting burden of racism, past and present, systemic and overt, we cannot continue to expect incremental change and the goodwill of the majority to solve a multigenerational problem.

So what do we do? What actions can we take? While there is a place for protests, we must do more than protest. We have an opportunity as individuals and in our own communities to construct a microcosm of the society in which we wish to live. At Virginia Tech, we have anchored that aspiration in our Principles of Community, but principles only become meaningful if they are acted upon. Our strategic plan, The Virginia Tech Difference – Advancing Beyond Boundaries, takes the principles one step further to actionable priorities and accountability. Let’s work together to ensure that Virginia Tech becomes a model for a just and equitable learning community that prepares the next generation to lead in a new and better world. Over the next few weeks, the Office for Inclusion and Diversity will be working in collaboration with diversity directors, InclusiveVT representatives, diversity committees, advocates, and allies to identify specific action steps to work for sustainable transformation. We hope you will join in those efforts to help make our world a better place for all.

In the spirit of Ut Prosim,

Tim Sands,
President
Menah Pratt-Clarke,
Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity
Those in the Virginia Tech community who need assistance or counseling support may contact:

Cook Counseling Center at 540-231-6557.
Dean of Students Office at 540-231-3787. Referral to a campus cleric may be made through this office.
Employee Assistance Program
Anthem at 855-223-9277
Aetna at 888-238-6232
Kaiser Permanente at 866-517-7042
Optima Health Vantage HMO at 866-846-2682
Hokie Wellness at 540-231-2233 (students) or 540-231-8878 (employees)
InclusiveVT at 540-231-7500
Office of Housing and Residence Life at 540-231-6205
Women’s Center at Virginia Tech at 540-231-7806
CONTACTS:
Tracy Vosburgh

540-231-5396

Mark Owczarski

540-231-5396

Top News
Article Item
Three people on a zoom call
Unfinished Conversations on Race: Education is key in combating racism, article
Article Item
Caption: Webster Santos (center) and the mitochondrial uncoupler team. Six males are smiling as they stand in front of a large window in Hahn Hall.
Virginia Tech drug researcher develops ‘fat burning’ molecule that has implications for treatment of obesity, article
Article Item
2020 President’s Award for Excellence recipients during celebration on June 4
Five employees named as recipients of the 2020 President’s Award for Excellence, article
TAGS
Beyond BoundariesCampus and CommunityInclusion and DiversityOffice of the PresidentStrategic PlanTop News
Map of Virginia with pins showing locations of Virginia Tech campuses. See All Locations link which follows provides details
Virginia Tech logo
GET DIRECTIONS  

SEE ALL LOCATIONS  

CONTACT VIRGINIA TECH  

University Status
Principles of Community
Privacy Statement
Acceptable Use
We Remember
University Libraries
Accessibility
Consumer Information
Stop Abuse
Policies
Equal Opportunity
WVTF
University Bookstore
Jobs at Virginia Tech
Strategic Plan
© 2020 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved.

Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linked In
Pintrest
YouTube
Share to Facebook
, Number of shares695
Share to Twitter
Share to LinkedIn
Share to Email
To the University community,

On Sunday, I offered some brief reflections on social media regarding the death of George Floyd. Those reflections and that medium were inadequate to the topic, which is why I am writing you today.

Let me start with the obvious but nonetheless essential. What happened to George Floyd – his callous and indifferent killing at the hands of a white police officer – was immoral and sickening. As Dean Risa Goluboff wrote recently, it might be tempting also to say it was "shocking,"but that wrongly suggests it was surprising. The recent and senseless deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and so many others before them whose lives were cut short demonstrate otherwise. This sort of violence against black people, including at the hands of those who are supposed to protect all of us, is sadly all too familiar and stretches back not just decades, but centuries, through the Civil Rights Era, Jim Crow, Reconstruction, and slavery.

And let me apologize. When I wrote last weekend, I felt deep despair. Despair for the treatment experienced by so many people of color in this country – not just by police, but by every segment of society, including higher education, including here at UVA. Despair for the current state of our country, which seems to be unraveling before our eyes. Despair for the continued racial inequities across a wide range of contexts – education, criminal justice, health care, housing, jobs – that are still there, as is the systemic racism that underlies those inequities.

But in my own despair, in indulging in it, I failed to express the genuine sorrow I feel for the unequal and unfair burden that I know our black students, faculty, and staff carry with them, not just through this episode, but through every day. George Floyd's death is just another sharp reminder that far too many people of color in this country live a life that is less secure – less safe – than white people, in part because of encounters with police officers who inflicted harm on people they were meant to protect. As a white parent of four kids, I have not had to have the conversation that so many black parents have had with theirs, cautioning them about how to behave around those who are meant to protect all of us. For all of that, I am truly sorry – both for that burden and for failing to acknowledge it.

And I know it's time to act and not simply to despair or rest on faith. Over the weekend, the Division for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at UVA posted a powerful statement from a group of faculty, staff, and community members reflecting on the latest tragedies. In it, they wrote:

We must continue to do the hard work that will help ensure that our future is different, more just, more accepting, and more inclusive. The future we envision is one in which the devaluing of life is no longer accepted, and where bigotry no longer contaminates our systems and institutions, burdening some community members much more than others.

I couldn't agree more, and I am committed to that work. It's in many ways why I came (back) here.

Through the hard work of many students, faculty, and staff – not to mention the persistent advocacy of alumni and community members – UVA is a better place today than it was a decade ago, or the decade before that. But there is more work to do in order for UVA to look more like the state and country in which we live; in order for UVA to be a trusted neighbor to the Charlottesville region; and in order for all students, faculty, and staff to have their voices and their presence equally valued, respected, and included in their everyday lives on Grounds.

I have tried to champion some of that work in my two years as president, and some of it – like increasing student and faculty diversity and being a good neighbor to the Charlottesville region – is in our strategic plan. To complement and push that work forward, today I have asked three colleagues to lead a racial equity task force: Ian Solomon, the Dean of the Batten School of Public Policy; Kevin McDonald, our Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion; and Barbara Brown Wilson, a faculty member in the School of Architecture and the faculty director of The Equity Center. This group will convene with students, faculty, and staff to gather together the growing list of recommendations, suggestions, and demands regarding the subject of racial equity at UVA – and to solicit others – and will send me a concrete and prioritized set of recommendations about the best steps forward, including actions that can be implemented right away.

Eleven days after I returned to UVA to begin as president, I spoke at an event to mark and remember the one-year anniversary of the white supremacist march through Grounds the year before. As I said then and will say again here:

I stand here today as an ally. I am surely an imperfect one, which is to say I am human, like all of you. I will disappoint some of you for doing too much and others for doing too little, some for going too fast and others for not going fast enough. But I know in my heart where I would like to go, and that is the place where our aspirations and our realities finally intersect. I know that many of you, so many of you, would like to get there as well.

I look forward to our continued, imperfect journey together.

Best,

Jim
--
James E. Ryan
President
University of Virginia

MEDIA CONTACT
Brian Coy

btc6r@virginia.edu 434-243-2070


Trending
THIS WEEK
UVA Renames Building for Walter Ridley, First African American to Earn Doctoral Degree
UVA Renames Building for Walter Ridley, First African American to Earn Doctoral Degree MORE
UVA Intends to Start In-Person Classes in August
UVA Intends to Start In-Person Classes in August MORE
Today, Again, I Am Overwhelmed By Grief and Rage …
Today, Again, I Am Overwhelmed By Grief and Rage … MORE
Video
POPULAR ON UVA TODAY
virtual_finals_thumb.jpg
UVA Class of 2020 Virtual Celebration MORE
year_in_review_thumb.jpg
A Year We Will Never Forget: 2019-20 in Review MORE
jim_ryan_speech_thumb.jpg
‘What Will You Carry With You?' Remarks From UVA President Jim Ryan MORE

Latest Stories
VIEW ALL >
A mobile robot, designed to work in hazardous environments, has been modified to kill the virus that causes COVID-19. (Photos by Sanjay Suchak, University Communications)
RESEARCH & DISCOVERY
Mechanical Engineers Develop Coronavirus Decontamination Robot
(Photo by Kipp Teague via Creative Commons)
BUSINESS & GOVERNMENT
Students Who Lost Internships Will Help Rural Businesses in New Pa
Dear Washington University community,

To say that this has been a difficult and painful week would be an extreme understatement. Like you, I've watched with sadness and grief as events have unfolded first in Minneapolis in response to the killing of George Floyd, and then across the country as individuals and communities have taken to the streets to express their anger and frustration at the racial injustice that continues to plague our nation. The ongoing racial violence that we are witnessing against people of color is nothing short of devastating. In recent months, we have seen a rise in anti-Asian and anti-Asian-American violence, largely perpetuated by other Americans. In the last two weeks, we have seen the continuation of violence against Black Americans, both at the hands of officers of the state and private individuals. The events of the past several days reflect only the most recent in a long line of wrongs that have been inflicted upon our communities of color. 

Here in St. Louis, we are all too familiar with the refrain of those who are committed to addressing issues of inequality and racism – "No justice, no peace."Given our commitment to activism and social justice, it's no surprise that the St. Louis community has joined the call to action, and I'm heartened to see the passion that drives our friends and neighbors to make their voices heard. I also am deeply concerned for the well-being of our community and remain committed to working toward a constructive path forward in our region that tackles structural disparities and inequities.

I've spent a lot of time this weekend thinking, and engaging in conversation with other university leaders, about how we can best support our community and advance the cause of racial justice during this time – what we could say or do that would bring comfort to those who are hurting, and show solidarity with those who are taking action. Given the enormity of the issues before us, we know without question that words are not enough, and that no "statement"will begin to resolve the tremendous challenges that are still before us. And yet, there are some things that are important to say.

First, we must acknowledge those who are suffering. To our students, faculty, staff, and any other members of our community who are feeling targeted, unheard, or unsupported, we see you and are here for you. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion means more than just welcoming every person into our community. It means valuing you as individuals with your own identities, actively acknowledging that you matter, and unwaveringly supporting your right to be treated fairly and equally in every aspect of our society. We stand with you and condemn all acts of hate, aggression, or disrespect toward any racial group that may happen anywhere in our community, our region, our country, or the world. We are committed to supporting all members of our community, and we must redouble our efforts to achieve the equity that is foundational to fostering this environment.

In addition, we remain committed to making a difference. After the killing of Michael Brown in Ferguson in 2014, our Washington University community began the long process of looking inward, to see how we could create space for honest dialogue about race, ethnicity, inequality, and social justice, how we could "do better and be better."Since that time, we have taken steps as a community to become more fully engaged on these issues, and to work toward positive change. At our most recent Day of Dialogue and Action this spring, we reaffirmed our commitment to creating "intentional spaces to listen, extend empathy, celebrate, and engage in dialogue"in hopes of reflecting on our own humanity and the humanity of others. The events of this week are a painful reminder of how much work we all still have to do, as a nation and as a society.

Finally, we must take action. This includes not only supporting our community, but also doing what is at the core of our mission: leveraging our activities in support of research, teaching, and patient care to make a difference in helping to forward the cause of racial and social justice in our community, our region, and around the world. Already some of our schools have announced initiatives aimed at improving racial equity, especially focusing on racial violence. We anticipate announcing additional initiatives in the coming weeks.

The separation of our community due to the COVID-19 pandemic has placed an additional strain on our ability to come together to support, listen to, and learn from one another. We are all struggling with the disconnection from our peers, friends, and support networks, especially during this time of additional stress. But this only makes our need to create space for engagement within our community even more urgent, and we are working toward ways to do that in the days ahead. In the short-term, please stay tuned for invitations to opportunities to participate in observances and events that our leaders are currently planning. In the longer-term, we continue to listen and engage with members of our community to work toward substantive, mission-oriented action that we will take institutionally to make our city and our world beacons of opportunity for all. 

In these incredibly difficult times, I know there are no words that will be enough. But it's important for you to know that as a community, we are united in our commitment to justice and racial equity.

Sincerely,

Andrew D. Martin
Chancellor

 
Denouncing racial violence and the ugliness of historic, systemic inequality, President Kirk Schulz and the university's executive leadership pledged greater accountability in confronting racial and social justice failures.

"We must consider our own roles in maintaining systemic racism and accepting racial violence, even when it makes us uncomfortable,"a letter from the university system's executive leadership team reads. "When our actions are informed by the truth of others, we can move forward, together, courageously and realize the aspirations of racial and social justice. Only then can we begin to create an authentic space from which to proceed."

In addition to Schulz, the letter was signed by interim Provost Bryan Slinker, incoming Provost Elizabeth Chilton and all chancellors and vice presidents.

Enter search text
Search

All the UW
Current site
Skip to main content
MyUW
Calendar
Directories
Libraries
UW Medicine
Maps
UW Today
Helpful Links
Computing/IT
Workday/ISC
Husky Card
UW Bothell
UW Tacoma
UW Facebook
UW Twitter
University of WashingtonUniversity of Washington
StudentsParentsFaculty & StaffAlumni  Quick Links
UW LEADERSHIP
 
REGENTS
 
PRESIDENT
 
PROVOST
Office of the President
Home
Office of the President
Archive
Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
May 30, 2020

Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
Ana Mari Cauce

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do they see a strong, resilient, educated woman?
Do they see someone who is their ancestors' wildest dreams?
Do they see a woman who has friends and family they love?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do you only see my skin color?
Do you only see the stereotypes others created for me?
Do you only see your fear?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

My brothers and sisters are villainized for asking questions.
My brothers and sisters are detained for walking on a public street.
My brothers and sisters are killed for existing.

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

I wonder when I will be harassed for existing.
I wonder when the police will be called to my door.
I wonder when I will be the one mourned.

I'm terrified to go outside.

– Laura Cañate, MBA '18

The last few weeks and months have been a time of jarring contrasts. Community members donating masks sewn by hand to protect essential workers, while mask-free revelers flout distancing mandates at pools and beaches. Groups of armed white demonstrators march against stay-at-home orders at state capitols with impunity, while for Black Americans the simple act of walking down the street, jogging or birdwatching can be fraught with danger, and even end in death. Too many are left to wonder, as does UW MBA alumna Laura Cañate, ‘18, "when I will be the one mourned."

Many of us have seen those compelling "before and after"pandemic pictures of cityscapes around the world. The before pictures show buildings shrouded by pollution while the after pictures reveal majestic mountains or vast stretches of squalid, overcrowded houses in the background. It's like a veil has been lifted allowing us to see more clearly what was there all along.

Support and resources

SafeCampus
Bias Incident Reporting Tool

Bothell
Counseling Center
Student Diversity Center

Seattle
Counseling Center
Let's Talk
Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center

Tacoma
Counseling and Psychological Services
Center for Equity and Inclusion

Employees
CareLink

Periods of upheaval and crisis both test and reveal our character, as individuals, communities and nations. Over the last few weeks and months, I've written about the courage and creativity of so many in our community. I've never been prouder of our faculty, students and staff and I am confident that we can and will continue to learn and grow together, building toward a healthier future for all.

But first, we must seize the clarity this moment offers. Painful though it may be, we must face up to the inequities this pandemic has laid bare, and the ugliness that it has revealed. We ARE all in this together, I wear a mask not to protect me, but to protect you. And it is also unquestionably true, that we are not all on equal footing. There are class and race differences not only in who can work from home, and who must venture out, but in who has kept their job and who hasn't. While low-income and communities of color are more apt to work at jobs that require them to be there in person, these same jobs are less likely to come with health care or sick leave. These communities are more apt to be in neighborhoods characterized by overcrowding and with less access to healthy food choices and recreational activities, conditions that no doubt play a role in the fact that people of color are more apt to suffer complications and even death from COVID-19.

These structural inequities, and the institutional racism that they reflect, create and amplify the conditions that led to the appalling ugliness that we've seen in the last few days and weeks — laid bare once again by ubiquity of cellphone cameras. The post-pandemic goal should not be to go back to the way it was. We must do better. As we enter into a period where a new vigilance around hygiene and closeness will become habitual, and where we measure the consequences of our individual actions not just by their effect on our own health, but on how they might affect our family and friends, let's create a "new normal"where attention to issues of equity becomes habitual as well. In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up – or go back.

Laura, I see you, I hear you. I know the smart, strong, sensitive woman that you are. I know your pain. My brother has been murdered next to yours, leaving a hole in my heart and life that can never be filled. And to you and all Black students, faculty and staff, while I can only imagine what it's like to walk in your shoes because my light skin protects me from your terror, I can and will walk with you.

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor — say their names, see their faces, hear their cries. Weep, then act.

 

FacebookTwitterLinkedInEmailShare
CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2020!
On June 13, graduates, their families and friends will gather from around the world to join in celebrating the Class of 2020 in the University of Washington's first ever live, interactive Commencement webcast.

LEARN MORE
President's Blog 
Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
6 days ago

Empowering people with disabilities requires investment and innovation
1 week ago

Washington's universities are anything but discretionary
1 week ago

American flags on the HUB lawn
A chance to reflect and honor those who gave their lives
2 weeks ago

More
Subscribe

Email
Email

RSS
RSS

PRESIDENT'S TWITTER

INVITE THE PRESIDENT
Want President Ana Mari Cauce to attend your event? Submit a request.
University of Washington
Be boundless
Connect with us:
Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest
Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms
© 2020 University of Washington | Seattle, WA
A MESSAGE TO OUR COMMUNITY
Posted on May 31, 2020
The events happening this week in the Twin Cities, across the nation and here in Madison demonstrate the anger that members of our community feel over years of unequal treatment.  This anger demands meaningful action, particularly for those of us who are in positions of privilege.

I recognize that words condemning the tragic and inexcusable death of George Floyd are not enough. UWPD Chief Kristen Roman and her fellow Dane County chiefs are already engaged with the community to reduce trust gaps and improve safety through the Law Enforcement and Leaders of Color Collaboration. I appreciate the work that UWPD has done to ensure that its training and policies protect and serve our communities of color as effectively as they protect and serve other members of our community.

Our work extends beyond law enforcement to every facet of our institution. Although most of us cannot physically be on campus because of the coronavirus, we continue to work on creating a more inclusive and diverse community through the efforts of Diversity, Equity and Educational Achievement:admissions and recruitment:faculty/staff recruitment and retention:Student Affairs:Human Resources, our schools and colleges as well as within individual departments and units.

Each of us – particularly those of us who do not face the daily challenge of living amid inequity and injustice – must contribute to and lead the change that is needed. There are many ways to become more aware and involved. A list of resources is available on the DDEEA website.

Our campus has a long and proud tradition of helping bring about lasting change through peaceful protest. Thousands of people gathered peacefully at the Capitol Saturday afternoon. Unfortunately, a small number chose to engage in destructive acts that attacked already-struggling local businesses. I condemn this violence:it drowns out the message that needs to be heard and is likely to create backlash and more anger on all sides, rather than promote the changes that are needed.

I urge anyone participating in protests to engage in peaceful activism that drives towards systemic change. Use the power and privilege of your education to speak up, reject hate, racism and violence and use respect to build our community. Please take care for your own safety and those around you in this time of COVID-19.

Finally, I encourage those who are anxious or angry about recent national events to connect with the campus resources that are here to support you. These include the Multicultural Student Center, DDEEA, University Health Services and the Employee Assistance Office.

To our Black and Brown students, staff and faculty, I want to say unambiguously: You belong here, you are important to this campus, your lives matter and I am committed to your safety.

This is a time of unprecedented challenge but I remain steadfast in the belief that together, we can move forward toward a more just future.

POST NAVIGATION
Previous post: Planning for a safe return to campus
Dear UWM Faculty, Staff and Students,

Last Friday, I reaffirmed UWM’s commitment to supporting and protecting our diversity, equity and inclusivity. In the short time since then, we’ve seen our cities, region and nation erupt in protest in response to the killing of George Floyd by a Minneapolis Police Department officer. Voice after voice has joined together to condemn decades of institutional violence, injustice and failures in our criminal justice system. And rightly so.

Let me be clear when I express, both for myself and campus leaders, our strong and clear solidarity in support of black lives and with those who are peacefully protesting. The time for successfully transforming our society is now. We support those who are peacefully protesting and the change they will bring.

Your voices are important, and we care deeply about making positive change.

What actions are we taking now to make a difference?

We have been connecting our students, faculty, staff and others through the multicultural success coaches of the Black Student Cultural Center to ensure that safety and a sense of belonging are addressed, particularly as it relates to our African-American males.
We continue to provide resources on how to engage in both individual and facilitated discussions around racism and anti-racist education.
We continue to work with MKE Fellows, a program that focuses on African-American males before and after their entry to UWM. Contact Ray Anthony Fikes for additional information.
We continue to support our ongoing African-American Male Initiative which serves as an important recruitment and retention tool.
What action will we commit to for the near future?

Going forward and working in partnership with governance groups, we will institute mandatory anti-bias, anti-racism training for all members of the UWM family. More details on this will follow.
To set the tone for future discussions around race, we encourage all to visit the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. This resource is an integral part of our ongoing diversity, equity and inclusion framework.
Once again, let me stress our unequivocally strong stance against racism, violence and oppression. Every person who sets foot on one of our campuses has the right to feel safe, respected and valued.

We see you. You matter. We care.

Best regards,

Mark A. Mone
Chancellor
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Stand with me, stand together: Black Lives Matter
DEPARTMENT(S): 
Office of the President
June 1, 2020
The past several months have presented unprecedented challenges for our community, the nation, and the world. Events of the past week have reminded us that while we are all focused on keeping our loved ones safe and healthy, the underlying inequities within our society remain. In fact, we must acknowledge that societal inequalities are actually being exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic.

The protests of the past few days, ignited by the killing of George Floyd, but truly fueled by the continued targeting, demonization, and abuse of black people across our country, highlight legitimate anger, which I share. The uprising we're now seeing points to the significant work we still have to do as a society to confront and eliminate racism. I stand with those who are outraged at the senseless loss of black lives. I offer my support to those who deal daily with racism and other forms of discrimination. I state unequivocally that Black Lives Matter; that racism, discrimination, and bigotry violate our values as a university and that they will not be tolerated in our community. I ask each of you stand with me, with us, and for your friends, your peers, your students, your neighbors as we seek a path forward. 

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. paraphrased Massachusetts-born abolitionist minister Theodore Parker when he said "The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."That arc feels much too long these days. And we must acknowledge that it won't bend on its own. Each of us, especially those of us who are privileged, must consider how we can contribute to bending the arc toward justice, and do our part to make the universe we want to see. 

There is no perfect answer, no perfect action we can take, because these societal problems run deep and have been created and perpetuated over generations. Nonetheless, I truly believe that our community can and must do more to live our values and advance the causes of justice as we look toward the coming year. I pledge to explore that with you further as we start to come back together in the weeks and months ahead. I welcome your ideas for specific steps that WPI can take as we continue to seek to create a truly equitable community where all are treated with respect, and all can thrive. I know we can make a difference together.

This has been and remains a trying and turbulent time. Both the toll of the virus and the upheaval in the world are real. Dealing with the scale of what we are witnessing is especially challenging because we are not physically together. However, we can still lift one another up through our community. Our resources are here to provide support, including the Student Development & Counseling Center, Office of Multicultural Affairs , the Employee Assistance Program, or simply the comfort of colleagues and friends over Zoom. 

Be safe and well. Standing together we will bend the arc of the universe toward justice.

Laurie

WPI in the World
Global Impact Program
GLOBAL PROJECTS PROGRAM
About 
Let's Answer This Call of Distress
June 2, 2020

Dear Members of the UW Community,

As I am sure you are all seeing in Wyoming or wherever you may be, many communities around the nation are in turmoil in reaction to the killing of George Floyd, and to the history of racism, intolerance and bigotry and their terrible outcomes that this event signifies to people across the nation and across the world. Newspapers and television networks are showing daily what is happening in cities like Minneapolis, New York, Chicago, Washington, D.C., and elsewhere, telling a painful narrative of national upheaval that is perhaps unparalleled since the era of the civil rights movement of the 1960s.

The national reaction is widespread, and certainly not limited to cities. The small university community where I have lived the last six years, amid fields of corn and soybeans, experienced significant peaceful protests to show solidarity with brown, black and other communities. But we also experienced violence, including vandalism, looting and gunshots being fired. All three of our nearby towns of Champaign (pop. 88,000), Urbana (pop. 42,000) and Savoy (pop. 8,400) went under curfew Sunday evening for the first time that anyone I know can recall; a limited reopening of our campus was postponed; and numerous activities, even long-planned events that were to be virtual, including a board meeting I was to attend yesterday, were canceled.

This upheaval is a distress call to us all. It is a distress call that we must continue to be vigilant about the continuing racism, bigotry and intolerance that have no place in our community. It is a distress call from our friends, family and colleagues who, even if they are safe at home in this COVID-19 crisis and are not directly experiencing violence against them at this moment, feel a sympathetic nerve has been touched that causes pain very, very deep inside.

Yesterday, I had emails from two different people expressing the very personal distress they are experiencing as a result of recent events. One, from an African-American colleague, asked us to please know that black and brown people who may seem to be relatively removed from this turmoil are actually experiencing very deeply felt trauma in response to not only the recent events, but to what they signify about our society. She soldiered on and attended meetings, but in her words, "we are not OK" and need support. Another, from international Hispanic communities, urged international members of his research team to be very careful going out of their homes, or better yet, to avoid it completely. So, I ask you all to please think very deeply about these events, and especially to reach out to your friends and colleagues, and ask them how they are.  Ask them what you can do to help them.  Ask them how we together can help address the larger issues that these feelings reveal about our society. And commit to it.

Chief Diversity Officer Emily Monago wrote yesterday to our community to draw attention to these events and to reaffirm the values of the University of Wyoming, and I think it is worth repeating some of her words: "During these unprecedented times, let us remember our University of Wyoming values where racism, violence, sexual violence, antisemitism, homophobia, transphobia, sexism, ableism, national origin, and other forms of disparate treatment, injustices and inequities are denounced. Let us stay committed to our resolve to educate our campus community to interrupt, stop and eliminate inequities, injustices and violence from our society at the local, regional, national and global levels. Let us resolve to be a united community regardless of social identities or beliefs."

I want to reaffirm that the University of Wyoming does, and will continue, to uphold these values. Further, diversity and inclusion make our community strong, vital and vibrant. They are absolutely necessary for the excellence we strive for. They require a commitment from all of us, every day, to embrace our shared university values actively, not passively. And they require a commitment that we care for one another in order to create a sense of well-being across our community. I ask you all to do just this at this time in our history, and to commit with me to continue do everything in your power to ensure that our diverse university community thrives in the future. It will make us all, and the university we serve, better for it.

Sincerely,

President-Designate Edward Seidel




May 30, 2020

Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
Ana Mari Cauce

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do they see a strong, resilient, educated woman?
Do they see someone who is their ancestors' wildest dreams?
Do they see a woman who has friends and family they love?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do you only see my skin color?
Do you only see the stereotypes others created for me?
Do you only see your fear?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

My brothers and sisters are villainized for asking questions.
My brothers and sisters are detained for walking on a public street.
My brothers and sisters are killed for existing.

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

I wonder when I will be harassed for existing.
I wonder when the police will be called to my door.
I wonder when I will be the one mourned.

I'm terrified to go outside.

– Laura Cañate, MBA '18

The last few weeks and months have been a time of jarring contrasts. Community members donating masks sewn by hand to protect essential workers, while mask-free revelers flout distancing mandates at pools and beaches. Groups of armed white demonstrators march against stay-at-home orders at state capitols with impunity, while for Black Americans the simple act of walking down the street, jogging or birdwatching can be fraught with danger, and even end in death. Too many are left to wonder, as does UW MBA alumna Laura Cañate, ‘18, "when I will be the one mourned."

Many of us have seen those compelling "before and after" pandemic pictures of cityscapes around the world. The before pictures show buildings shrouded by pollution while the after pictures reveal majestic mountains or vast stretches of squalid, overcrowded houses in the background. It's like a veil has been lifted allowing us to see more clearly what was there all along.

Support and resources

SafeCampus
Bias Incident Reporting Tool

Bothell
Counseling Center
Student Diversity Center

Seattle
Counseling Center
Let's Talk
Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center

Tacoma
Counseling and Psychological Services
Center for Equity and Inclusion

Employees
CareLink

Periods of upheaval and crisis both test and reveal our character, as individuals, communities and nations. Over the last few weeks and months, I've written about the courage and creativity of so many in our community. I've never been prouder of our faculty, students and staff and I am confident that we can and will continue to learn and grow together, building toward a healthier future for all.

But first, we must seize the clarity this moment offers. Painful though it may be, we must face up to the inequities this pandemic has laid bare, and the ugliness that it has revealed. We ARE all in this together, I wear a mask not to protect me, but to protect you. And it is also unquestionably true, that we are not all on equal footing. There are class and race differences not only in who can work from home, and who must venture out, but in who has kept their job and who hasn't. While low-income and communities of color are more apt to work at jobs that require them to be there in person, these same jobs are less likely to come with health care or sick leave. These communities are more apt to be in neighborhoods characterized by overcrowding and with less access to healthy food choices and recreational activities, conditions that no doubt play a role in the fact that people of color are more apt to suffer complications and even death from COVID-19.

These structural inequities, and the institutional racism that they reflect, create and amplify the conditions that led to the appalling ugliness that we've seen in the last few days and weeks — laid bare once again by ubiquity of cellphone cameras. The post-pandemic goal should not be to go back to the way it was. We must do better. As we enter into a period where a new vigilance around hygiene and closeness will become habitual, and where we measure the consequences of our individual actions not just by their effect on our own health, but on how they might affect our family and friends, let's create a "new normal" where attention to issues of equity becomes habitual as well. In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up – or go back.

Laura, I see you, I hear you. I know the smart, strong, sensitive woman that you are. I know your pain. My brother has been murdered next to yours, leaving a hole in my heart and life that can never be filled. And to you and all Black students, faculty and staff, while I can only imagine what it's like to walk in your shoes because my light skin protects me from your terror, I can and will walk with you.

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor — say their names, see their faces, hear their cries. Weep, then act.
Dear Warrior community,

Yet again our nation is rising in anger and sorrow at another senseless death of a black man, this time due to brutality exhibited during an arrest. I wish to share my thoughts with you about this terrible tragedy.

Unfortunately, racism and the disparate impact of violence in the black community remain national issues, but we should remember that each of these incidents involves real people. George Floyd had family and friends who mourn his death, and dreams that will never be fulfilled. My heart aches for this loss, and my sympathies go out to his loved ones. No person in America — regardless of their race, creed or religion — should ever fear for their life simply because of who they are or how they look.

But the fear is real, because far too often it feels like we’re living the same nightmare. How do we deal with it? We demand better of all citizens, particularly those we trust to keep us safe. We also come together — not in violence, but in protest against violence, and in sympathy for those to whom violence has been committed. The compassionate, inclusive and community-minded ethos that defines Wayne State is one of the things I value most about this university, and we need to draw on it now.

Even though we can’t gather physically to mourn, we can still support each other through the means we have. Wayne State University will host a virtual dialogue on Wednesday, June 3, at 5 p.m. We hope you will join us using this Zoom link (Meeting ID: 831 3199 8274. Password: 598720).

Another reason I write today is to remind you that senseless deaths and mishandling of justice like those we've seen in Minneapolis and Atlanta are precisely why we take racial sensitivity training so seriously with the Wayne State University Police Department. Our officers regularly receive training on how to act in all types of situations, with all types of people. We are now taking the lead in this important training with the establishment of the headquarters of National De-escalation Training Center (NDTC) with Wayne State’s police department. The NDTC has filed for non-profit corporation status with the State of Michigan and has already begun de-escalation training of sworn Wayne State University police officers. The training offered by the NDTC has been specifically developed and designed to exceed traditional de-escalation methods, with the goal of fostering positive interactions with citizens and reducing the number of needless and tragic encounters that result in injuries and deaths to both citizens and police officers. 

Here in Detroit, a city that has been ravaged disproportionately by the coronavirus pandemic, we may feel strongly about the injustice of George Floyd’s murder. We may be tempted to believe that there have been far too many senseless deaths, and that it is vain to hope for a better world. But I urge you not to succumb to despair. As a black man, I have felt personally the sting of racism. Instead of feeling defeated by it, I have sought ways to stand up to it: by mentoring minority students, opening people’s eyes to the benefits of diversity, and devoting my career to researching and addressing health inequities around the globe. I do so because it helps others, and it gives me hope that our country will find a way to reckon with the urgent need for change in how we treat and support one another. Let’s model that change, each of us, by treating each other with love and respect.

Sincerely,





Letter from Chancellor Robinson: Racial Justice
WSSU News & Information

Dear Ram Family,

Against the backdrop of a global pandemic that is disproportionately impacting African Americans, we again find ourselves assailed with horrific images that remind us of the reality of racism in America. While the memories of Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor are still fresh, we experience the video of a white police officer kneeling on George Floyd's neck while Mr. Floyd gasps, "I can't breathe" as his life is snuffed out. We are once again reminded of James Baldwin's writing on the failure of human rights and social justice: "We have emptied oceans with homemade spoons and tore down mountains with our hands."

Black America is accustomed to institutional racism in its many facets; however, it can often seem as though our efforts to eradicate it have too little effect. While I don't condone violence as a means to an end, I do support our fellow citizens' right to peacefully protest the inequities and injustice in our society. The fury and grief that people are feeling speak to the institutionalized intolerance, discrimination, marginalization, and bigotry that have existed in this country—and our world—for centuries. 

But what must be our response to darkness? We must always move together toward the light. We must continue to say yes to life—and it is often found in terrible places like racist policies, beliefs, and practices; nevertheless, that is life. 

James Baldwin once again gives us a path forward: 

"For nothing is fixed, forever and forever and forever, it is not fixed; the earth is always shifting, the light is always changing, the sea does not cease to grind down rock. Generations do not cease to be born, and we are responsible to them because we are the only witness they have.

The sea rises, the light fails, lovers cling to each other, and children cling to us. The moment we cease to hold each other, the moment we break faith with one another, the sea engulfs us and the light goes out."

As I consider this national crisis, I am reminded of our university's rich history and its contributions to the advancement of social justice and equity in our society. Consider our motto: "Enter to Learn. Depart to Serve." Our service as members of the Ram Family can—and should—include helping to eradicate the cancer that is racism in America. As long as we keep the light shining on racism, we have a chance of eliminating it. But we have to stay vigilant, because it's always omnipresent. And we have to hold up one another. 

This journey toward a more enlightened America has been—and will continue to be—a rocky road. We must uplift one another, support one another, and advocate for one another in all spaces and places where we have a voice. We must find ways to protest peacefully, vote and run for office, and commit ourselves anew to the work we do at Winston-Salem State. Our students are the next generation of leaders; we need their energy and effort to carry the torch as we work toward peace, justice, and equality.

 Please know my heart is with you, Rams. Be safe. 

 Sincerely,

Elwood L. Robinson, Ph.D.

Tags: Chancellor
More News

Black lives matter.  We stand with those protesting the racist killing of George Floyd. Too many have been killed: Breonna Taylor, Ahmard Arbery, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice, Quanice Hayes, Aiyana Jones, Eric Garner, Stephon Clark, Sandra Bland, Kendra James, Trayvon Martin, and the list goes on. We stand with those protesting long-standing racial injustice. We are acutely aware that machine learning algorithms trained with data that embodies the racial and social injustices of today will perpetuate and amplify these injustices in the future. Already we have witnessed applications of ML in law enforcement, policing, hiring, healthcare, and education that replicate or amplify existing biases. Any technology that unintentionally or by design marginalizes, excludes, or harms Black communities is damaging and dangerous. We recognize the hard work done by fellow ML researchers to shine light on these ill-conceived applications, and call on the ML community at large to take accountability for the societal impacts and consequences that our technology has on society and the world. Women in Machine Learning (WiML) reaffirms our commitment to promoting diversity and increasing the awareness of women, particularly Black women, in machine learning. n this vein, we want to highlight some impactful groups working to support Black students, researchers, and professionals in machine learning and computer science more broadly: 
@black_in_ai @AJLUnited @BlackGirlsCode @Code2040 @Data4BlackLives @blkintechnology @NSBE If you’re looking for specific ways to support the Black Live Matter movement, check https://blacklivesmatters.carrd.co
If you are looking for information about policing in your local community, check
Campaign Zero https://joincampaignzero.org/solutions and Use of Force Project useofforceproject.org #BlackLivesMatter
Dear Wright State family,

It is not enough to say that Wright State University has an unwavering commitment to diversity and inclusion. I want to express our horror at the tragic and disturbing events that unfurled in Minneapolis this week. This is yet another painful reminder of the persistence of racial inequity and injustice in our country, and it only underscores our responsibility to stand together in solidarity against acts like this and to promote equity and inclusion.

As president of Wright State University, I understand the limitations of a message like this, because it comes at a time when many in our community are in pain and angry. At the same time, I hope you know that I stand with you in these challenging times.

I want to remind our campus community of resources that are available to assist you. I encourage anyone who needs it to reach out to these campus resources to provide you with support, compassion, and understanding.

Wright State students can seek confidential support services through Counseling and Wellness Services by calling 937-775-3407. You can call Raider Cares, a 24-hour crisis phone service, at 833-848-1765 (TTY: 314-485-4345). You also have access to a Crisis Text Line that offers 24-hour, seven-day per week text contact with trained crisis counselors, by texting "LISTEN" to 741-741.

Wright State's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides support services for all employees, regardless of benefit eligibility. EAP services are provided at no cost to employees, and include 24/7 telephone access to licensed and experienced counselors, as well as work/life balance services. Call 800-227-6007 or visit the Impact Solutions website at myimpactsolution.com. Use member username: wsufsap.

Diversity is one of our greatest strengths. Our diversity of thought, culture, background, and experiences fuel our community's ability to thrive in uncertain times, consider thought-provoking opinions without incident, and nurture one another when confronted by great challenges.

We will never fail when we face our challenges together. We stand together.

Sue

Dear Members of the Yale Community,

I write to you today deeply upset by the killing of George Floyd while he was in the custody of Minneapolis police officers. Mr. Floyd's death follows a pattern of racial injustice that has become too familiar in our country and that amounts to a national emergency.

At a time when the American community must come together more than ever before, George Floyd's horrifying death shocks our shared conscience and indicts our shared failure. It can and must remind us of other similar killings and of the racism, nativism, and bigotry too pervasive in society today and throughout our country's history.

Over the past week, I have been thinking about two seemingly incongruous things—our sense of community and one of our most basic emotions: fear.

Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, legitimate fear has been very much with us, but not just about the virus itself, and not among us equally. From reports of racism against people of Asian descent to the unacceptable disparities in health outcomes and health care, there was every reason for us to fear for the safety of our neighbors and family members, and of some, sadly, more than of others.

At the same time, I saw nurses, doctors, support staff, and volunteers act with courage, selflessness, and compassion in our home city and around the world. We nurtured a growing sense of community, which gave us the optimism and hope that must ever be a cornerstone of our beloved country. It is in the face of that noble expression of solidarity that George Floyd's death has shaken us and the shared spirit of heroism we have aroused to fight the pandemic.

As I read the news reports of Mr. Floyd's death and its explosive response, I knew that many members of our community feel fear in their daily lives because of the injustices they have experienced and witnessed, and I thought of how fear so reliably leads to anxiety, depression, health deterioration, and anger, and also to aggression and even violence. Some of the protests have turned destructive, undermining the plea for justice all Americans must share. Fear is powerful, damaging, and unpredictable in its effects.

I believe that all of us at Yale must do what we can to replace fear with hope—and not with anything less than action. Here I have been thinking much of the life of the extraordinary Pauli Murray, a lawyer, civil rights leader, and Yale Law School graduate. She experienced firsthand the cruelties of racial segregation and suffered injustices. She knew fear. However, she wrote in her memoir, "Seeing the relationship between my personal cause and the universal cause of freedom released me from a sense of isolation…I would be no less afraid to challenge the system of racial segregation, but the heightened significance of my cause would impel me to act in spite of my fears."

I have implored myself—and earnestly invite you to do the same— to make direct use of Pauli Murray's wisdom. Her words remind us of all that we have been able to accomplish together because of our shared commitment to the common good. Since mid-March, we have saved lives in this pandemic. We have isolated ourselves, changed the way we live, and sacrificed to safeguard the well-being of the most vulnerable among us and prevent our hospitals from becoming overwhelmed. It is vital to remember that we have been united in easing suffering, improving lives, and providing hope during a turbulent and challenging period of our history. If we can do this, we are capable, all of us, of creating the America we must insist belongs to us all.

In 1945, Pauli Murray wrote, "As an American I inherit the magnificent tradition of an endless march toward freedom and toward the dignity of all mankind." We have so much more to do to foster and sustain an equitable society. Instead of feeling the isolating effects of fear when our sense of community is shaken, we must remember that we are connected in more ways than we are divided. And that where we are divided, we must work, now, in the interest of unity and justice. This is a matter of the highest importance.

So, let us act as Pauli Murray would have us act toward those we know well but also those to whom we are connected simply by a common and powerful dream. I am grateful that you and I share Yale and its mission to improve the world today and for future generations. In looking forward to the work we have ahead of us, I wish you peace and strength.

With best wishes for your health and safety,

Peter Salovey
President
Chris Argyris Professor of Psychology
We are of our community – and our community is in pain. We cannot escape the problems of society – for we carry the successes and challenges of our community with us wherever we go. Left unchecked, racism, sexism, homophobia, and fear of the other can enter any organization or community – and destroy the foundations upon which we must build our future.

The past few harrowing days have laid bare how a lack of trust, respect, and leadership can tear at our social fabric. In these times, we must pull together and provide leadership in our own communities. Leadership is not about having all of the answers. It starts with unwavering principles that can steady us when the world seems unbalanced.

With all that is happening around us, let us recommit AAAS to these relevant principles:

    Diversity, equity, and inclusion along every axis are critical for our organization, the scientific enterprise, and our community to progress
    Ensuring lasting diversity, equity, and inclusion requires going beyond intervention to systemic change
    Systemic change begins with everyone feeling safe and respected
    Hatred, discrimination, and injustice have no place at AAAS, in science, or in our community

Let us recommit ourselves to these principles and rededicate ourselves to the mission of advancing science and serving society. Society needs us more than ever.

The coming weeks and months will bring further unprecedented challenges to us and our communities. What we do in this time will define us for a generation. In the face of national uncertainty, I am confident in this team’s ability to be a force for science, a force for good, and a support for one another. Our programs, publications, and advocacy are critical to a better and more just world. Your support makes each of these possible.

Nevertheless, a torrent of emotion has been unleashed in the last few days. It is understandable to feel anger, sadness, and helplessness. Many of us have been deeply impacted by these events. It is my hope that we come together as colleagues and friends to support one another. Science, scientists, and science advocates are going to be critical to ensuring we successfully navigate this troubled time together

"In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up — or go back."
ACM Stands with Those who promote inclusivity
In the United States, and throughout many regions around the world, current events have brought attention to the urgent need for equality and respect for all individuals. ACM reaffirms its commitment to fostering diversity and inclusion within the global computer science community.

As an international organization of nearly 100,000 professionals, ACM respects the essential worth of all people and firmly believes that diversity strengthens the scientific enterprise and society as a whole. ACM’s Code of Professional Ethics embodies these principles, and our Diversity and Inclusion Council works to translate them into effective action.

ACM is committed to creating an environment that welcomes new ideas and perspectives, and where hostility or other harmful behaviors are not tolerated. As an organization, we stand with those who promote inclusivity.


The AISES family shares in the pain and grief of the black community resulting from the murder of George Floyd and the long history of oppression and violence against their communities. As indigenous people, at AISES, we are guided by the traditional knowledge of our ancestors who have lived and died upon these lands since time immemorial. Among this knowledge is the deep understanding that "we are all related." It is this respect for relationships and community that guides AISES' programs and partnerships. For example, for several years now, AISES has been a part of the 50k Coalition alongside the National Society of Black Engineers, the Society of Women Engineers, and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers. Through partnerships like this, we have come to understand that our combined communities are stronger together. We have come to recognize that we are all working toward the same goals – diversity, equity, and inclusion for all communities and have learned that we can support one another through the adversity and challenges our communities face day in and day out. As such, today and every day, we stand with our black brothers and sisters in solidarity against the continued violence and systemic oppression of their communities. #blacklivesmatter

What do we tell our children, our students?
- Expressions from Alabama State University President, Dr. Quinton T. Ross Jr., on recent national events surrounding the death of George Floyd.
- By Dr. Quinton T. Ross Jr., President of Alabama State University.

"For the past few days, I, like many others have been viewing through the lens of the media, the reaction of our country to the deplorable and senseless death of yet another defenseless black person at the hands of a white police officer, a tragic mockery to the truth that Black Lives Matter. Similar to other Americans, I am overcome with a range of emotions.

As the father of two sons and as a black man myself, I can assure you that I am furious and deeply saddened by the death of George Floyd, as I am by every senseless killing of black males and females in America. It could have been either of my sons, my brothers, my nephews or nieces, my friends or even one of my students who lay on the ground, pleading for mercy on that horrific day. 

Looking into the eyes of my 11-year-old son and trying to help him comprehend what happened and what is happening in our nation, I am cognizant of the fact that I am old enough only to have read about the many civil rights protests and nonviolent demonstrations that have afforded me the opportunities that I have enjoyed during my lifetime.  While I was not an eyewitness to the protests, I do try to paint a picture for my son, drawing from my exposure to many civil rights icons and their recounting of historic events of the past, such as the Montgomery Bus Boycott, the march from Selma to Montgomery, the brutality of law enforcement officers such as Bull Connor and the story of Ruby Bridges. I am emotionally distraught about the stark parallel of our nation's present state of affairs and our nation's historical past.

I have been giving thought to this national crisis, especially as it relates to Alabama State University's rich history and her overwhelming contributions to the advancement of civil rights in the nation.  I am one of thousands of students who have matriculated and emerged from ASU with purpose and a true understanding of social justice and responsibility. At ASU, we learned the importance and the power of the vote.  The call to public service and advocacy was ingrained in our DNA by O' Mother Dear.

While I attempt to give some sensible explanation to the most recent senseless acts of brutality, I have reflected on my first real encounter with the reality of racist police violence against blacks in America.  It was the spring of 1991, just prior to my senior year in college, and I had just been elected President of the Student Government Association. This was the time that our nation witnessed Rodney King being brutally beaten by Los Angeles law enforcement officers after he led them on a high-speed chase.  I remember asking myself, "Is this what would happen to me as a black man if I found myself in a similar situation with authorities?" I vividly recall how the nation erupted into protests because of Rodney King's mistreatment, just like the protests that have erupted nationally because of the senseless death of George Floyd and others. Each incident is similar to the protests that happened across this nation in the 1960s due to social injustice.  As a young student, I was confused and enraged by what I witnessed. I remember the rumbling of unrest within our student body regarding Rodney King. We were all ready to act on our anger and frustration by taking to the streets of Montgomery to let our voices be heard.  Word of our intentions reached our President, the late Dr. C. C. Baker, who later became one of my mentors. My SGA leadership team and I were summoned to Dr. Baker's office, and it was there that I learned what social protesting was really all about. It is not about the destruction of property, looting or acting disorderly; it is about banding together peacefully with a common goal, with a purpose and a plan for change.  During the meeting, we discussed our desire to be heard and our passion for change, and emerged with a plan for a peaceful protest on the campus that historically has been a beacon for change—our home, our haven—Alabama State University.  This focusing event allowed me to lead my first press conference. It would be the first time I had ever spoken in front of news cameras. Every news outlet in the city was on campus that day as students gathered with community stakeholders in great numbers. I led the protest with a speech. Students and local elected officials were also able to have their voices heard as the media captured our impassioned sentiments and broadcast the event.  I share this personal experience not only to highlight the importance of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) in providing a platform for change, but also to emphasize the need to protest peacefully and with a purpose.

I offer that advice while understanding and even relating to the rage that has been unleashed across the nation by the infection of racism that is more potent than ever in America. Our nation has a new and improved infection of racism when George Floyd can plead for mercy while dying publicly under the force of a racist man's knee just as his forefathers died publicly hanging from a noose. There is a new and improved infection of racism when a young man by the name of Michael Brown can hold his hands up in surrender and still be shot to death in broad daylight in Ferguson, Missouri. There is a new and improved infection of racism when a man by the name of Eric Garner in New York City can tell authorities "I can't breathe"as he is choked to death.  The infection of racism is new and improved when a young man by the name of Trayvon Martin is gunned down in cold blood while walking from the store to his home. Racism is new and improved when Ahmaud Arbery can be gunned down while jogging not far from his home. There is a new and improved infection of racism when Breonna Taylor can be shot and killed by police officers as she lay sleeping in her apartment in Louisville, Kentucky. Let us not forget the infection of racism that related to the death of Sandra Bland, who was found hanged in a jail cell in Walker County, Texas, after being arrested for a minor traffic stop. Here in Montgomery, there is a new and improved infection of racism when a man by the name of Greg Gunn, who attended ASU, is chased and killed by a police officer just a few steps from his mother's front door. Their tragic deaths made headlines, but across this nation and even in this city, we could easily add more names to the rolls of those whose lives have been so tragically cut short with no cell phone cameras to capture their last, painful breaths.

With this in mind, we struggle with the question, "What should we tell our students?"The answer that I offer you is the same that I give to my sons. I ask that you find ways to protest peacefully, including exercising your personal responsibility to register to vote and then go vote, and committing yourself to continuing your education so that you are prepared to emerge as this nation's next generation of leaders. I ask that you resist the temptation to channel your anger into destruction; instead, channel your energy into the very thing that disturbs and disrupts those who would oppress you: Education.

Our nonviolent stand proved successful in the past, and I believe it could be the catalyst for real and impactful change today. Let peace be at the core of all of our actions.

While it seems as though remaining calm in the midst of a racist storm is a signal to be disrespected, disregarded and endangered, remember the lives that were lost to get us to this day. Remember the examples of those who were brutally beaten and rose up from that brutality to walk the halls of congress, to become mayors, governors, state legislators and community leaders. They are the ones upon whose shoulders we stand. Their sacrifices have afforded us the opportunity to stand and take up the mantle of peace, justice and equality for all. 

Stay in the fight against injustice my children and my students, with peace, purpose and a plan that saves us from self-destruction and allows us all to "breathe"freely."

News media contact: Kenneth Mullinax, 334-229-4104.



Our students, like Rondriquez White, who is also the co-founder of the Nashville Chapter of Black Lives Matter, are and always have been on the front lines of change in our country's history. As an organizer of this weekend's protest when asked about the extreme heat index by the media White says, "The temperature we face, the oppression that we face is even hotter."
As the U.S grapples with the murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbury and many other black men and women, it is during this painful time that we explicitly condemn racism and systematic oppression, and call for genuine change. We stand with the Black community and against anti-Blackness.
AnitaB.org was founded to increase the representation of women in in technology and ensure that women’s voices play a key role in shaping the future of the industry-and the extension of the world.
In the past, living mission-while created with the most progressive intentions- has sometimes fallen short of supporting every woman. Like many organizations’ histories, ours holds moments of erasure when it comes to uplifting Black people and women, the people who need it the most. We are working hard to live our values, both within our organization and as we work with our Partners to do the same.
We cannot allow this moment to pass us by and call our Partners to take action, including:
•        Increase your diversity. Hire Black people.
•        Contribute to the organizations that support the promotion of Black and other marginalized people.
•        Partner with public officials to change laws and policing to protect everyone.
•        Support protestors throughout the country by donating to bail funds.
The time is now to change our culture, create a more equal society and move forward together.
#BlackLivesMatter

So, here we are in 2020, painfully and acutely realizing that the long-held ideals of our nation, as embodied in the Constitution's aspirations of the right to equal justice, the right to pursue happiness and the right to individual liberty, are, in fact, unfairly and inequitably distributed across our society. This, of course, has been a reality since the founding of our Republic and, although we have made progress through our struggles and our changes, it is nonetheless jolting to see these inequalities manifested through the unfair treatment of individuals based on their race and ethnicity by the very government designed to protect and defend their rights as citizens.

The blatant abuse of power by the police as exhibited in the case of George Floyd, and many others, is in many ways akin to the actual abuses of power perpetrated against Americans in ways that led to the revolution against Great Britain. The very founding of our nation was a result of these mistreatments by the ruling government itself at the time.

Individuals have rights, the government must protect those rights, and the government must not be involved in injuring or diminishing those rights, particularly in its exertion of power towards its people.

The Constitution of the United States is perhaps the most important aspirational document ever written and codified by humans to govern themselves, particularly in the sense that it leaves very little to doubt about its goals of equality, justice, liberty, and the ability to pursue happiness by the individual as its purpose. That document, the Constitution, is in and of itself our collective aspirational goal, the society we wish we could be as a people. Can we find ways in all that we do, including policing, education, and social welfare, to meet the ideals of that Constitution and all that it stands for? The answer is no, unless we are willing to face our failings, call out our injustices, and drive towards the changes needed to achieve the common goals America was built to achieve.

In August 1963, on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King in his globally noted and socially profound "I Have A Dream"speech, outlined exactly this concept of aspiration. Dr. King used the "dream"concept to describe a world in the future in which the actual articulation of the aspirations of the Constitution could be realized in every person's life regardless of their race, ethnicity, religion, or social class. He did this with a level of eloquent intensity that set the stage for the pursuit of further attainment of the American constitutional aspirations. He knew the aspirations; he knew the intent of the words and the concepts; he knew the philosophies on which they were based and that they were substantial and powerful in terms of what is a human being; he knew the struggles that preceded in the evolution of the United States; and he knew the struggle that he was a part of as a leader of the Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s, which ultimately cost him his own life.

The key point here by Dr. King, and I think the key point of the Constitution itself, goes well beyond any interpretation of the Constitution by a particular sitting Supreme Court, for as we know many of those interpretations from the past would be found today to be appalling, but rather towards the idea of fighting for and driving toward and working toward our national aspirational goals, particularly of equality and justice.

We, the university community broadly and Arizona State University specifically, are, in fact, an aspirational institution and we have, in fact, been woefully inadequate, up to this point, in our own efforts to facilitate the means by which higher aspirational attainment might be achieved for these central goals to our society. This is particularly true as we have grown and diversified as a society.

At ASU, we have taken to heart the notion of designing and building the "New American University,"a university built on the notion of maximum social inclusion, maximum academic excellence, and maximum impact on serving our communities all from the same institution. In the last 15–20 years, Arizona State University students have become representative of the totality of the diversity of our society, and we have altered the functional way in which we operate to help bring about this "New America,"this aspirational attainment of our core values, as stated through the U.S. Constitution. But, even with that, we have been too slow in the concept of redesigning, reconceptualizing, restaffing, re-empowering and enabling the institutions that we, the university more broadly and ASU more specifically, have helped to design, create, staff, and assess. Our institutions are not living up to our hopes. They are not yet as capable as they need to be to reach our collective dream.

Why is it that we still have systems and institutions that can carry out and often justify injustices in the name of the people? Why is it that we have inadequate learning and empowerment opportunities in so many areas of our society? Why do we have police officers so inadequately trained that groups of them can stand by while a person is murdered in a public display of abuse of authority? Why do we not have enough new tools for enhancing the outcomes of our criminal justice system or enough new ideas and solutions about how to address drug addiction and other powerfully negative forces at work in our society? Why have universities become increasingly elitist organizations drawing only from the cream of the cream of our society or from families producing "learning elites"from significant amounts of personal wealth and personal networks? These and many other questions are questions that we can and should not only address but attack and begin to resolve.

But, in spite of all of our efforts, we still have insufficient ideas for social transformation where it might make the most positive difference in terms of accelerating the rate of change and accelerating the rate of enhanced social justice and accelerating the rate of enhanced pursuit of happiness across as much of our society as is possible. We need to do more.

To do more, I am asking our deans and faculty and students of all of our ASU colleges to outline new initiatives, new programs, and new designs that we can initiate with our own resources and then pursue additional partners in creating and deploying new solutions. Our Watts College of Public Service and Community Solutions, our Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law, our School of Social Transformation, our Mary Lou Fulton Teachers College, and other critical ASU academic communities can outline new efforts, new concepts, and new strategies to devise new models for protecting and defending the rights of individuals; new methods, new concepts, and new tools for policing; models for justice and the law that are, in fact, implementable throughout the process and not only after injustices have occurred.

All of our schools and all of our programs, as well as all of our faculty, can engage in this process of new ideas, new designs, and new concepts, while we, as Arizona State University, continue to strive towards our aspirational goal of being the highest quality, highest performing, most egalitarian university operating across the breadth of our society that we possibly can be.

To do this, I am asking that the deans engage in a college-by-college process and that the student leaders also engage in a process for specific new initiatives that we can undertake. I would like to be able to review these aspirational attainment ideas before the opening of the fall semester so that we might get some new energy focused here as faculty and students reassemble.

If, in the interim, there are immediate ideas or immediate actions, get those to me straightaway.

My hope is that we can take a good hard look at our own intellectual underpinnings here and ask ourselves, "are there things that we can do differently or designs that we can produce or teaching and learning that we can alter that can help produce new and better aspirational attainment for the goals of our country?"

I look forward to our moving forward as soon as possible with new efforts. 


We are the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE). We take each of those words and our collective identity very seriously.
We're American. We recall that this nation was born in rebellion to oppressive tyranny and that no oppressor has ever gladly surrendered his position. We're American. We know that nativism has never been our strength; rather we have embraced the world and taken our strength from all the peoples of the world, including those who were already here.
We are a Society. We are a community of shared interests and purposes. Prominent among our shared interests is diversity, equity, and inclusion. We have spoken out forcefully in this regard time and time again including our February 1, 2017 statement on the US President's executive orders on immigration.
We are Engineers. We understand that diversity, equity, and inclusion are essential to the quality of what engineers produce. It's not a "nice to have"—it is essential. Circumstances or actions that impede diversity, equity, and inclusion are inimical to good engineering practice.
We are Educators. Whether we stand in research labs, classrooms, factory floors, or boardrooms, we seek to enlighten others to what we know and what we are learning. We seek to facilitate opportunities for all to learn to the best of their abilities, and to hold ourselves accountable for the quality of our facilitation. We recognize historical and systemic inequities in opportunities and preparation to learn and seek to ensure equitable access and success in education.
The murder of Mr. George Floyd, like that of so many others before him, was a heinous act. But it was not a singular act, or an isolated act. It was part of a pervasive pattern and practice of learned, ingrained, and automatic behaviors that have and will require persistent, consistent, and resistant action to limit and eventually reverse.
We recognize our limitations, but believe that by working together as ASEE members and in collaboration with others, we can contribute to advancing and sustaining the deep and wide change that will be necessary for this nation to begin to achieve the aspirational words that are the preamble to the US Constitution – . . . forming a more perfect Union, establishing Justice, insuring domestic Tranquility, . . . promoting the general Welfare, and securing the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity . . .
Our nation is hurting. For the last few months, we have hurt physically, financially and otherwise from the coronavirus. Now, recent events of racial injustice are hurting us in many ways that words often find inadequate to fully express.

While we acknowledge the painful reality that prejudice and bigotry exist, we stand resolute that they have no place in the Auburn Family. As an institution that values and embraces each individual, we oppose hate and exclusion and acts that promote them.

It was on my heart to reaffirm Auburn’s values. I’m confident that we, together, will work toward change and healing.

To the families, friends and loved ones of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery, we extend our deepest sympathy. Our hearts ache for both the nation we have worked to make more just and equitable and for the city we love and call home. Through our grief for the countless known and unknown victims of systematic racism, we continue to pray that we can use this moment to shine light in our communities. This is not the moment to fall into despair. The world needs our leadership and love. As our forefathers and mothers from the Atlanta Student Movement, the larger Civil Rights Movement, and every struggle for justice in America have shown us, we accomplish great things when we act in solidarity with those who fight for freedom and push America to live up to its promise.

For well over a century, the institutions of the Atlanta University Center have worked to use the light of knowledge to guide the nation out of dark times. The very existence of Clark Atlanta University, Morehouse College, Morehouse School of Medicine, and Spelman College is a form of protest in itself—a recognition that education can illuminate the path to justice and equality and a demand that it be available to the sons and daughters of the diaspora. While we are proud of the leaders in every field our institutions have sent forth into the workforce, we are even prouder of their preparation to carry forward the hard work of making the world better through ideas, innovation, creativity, courage, and determination.

What can we do, individually and as the AUC community? What is the way forward? What are the difficult conversations we need to have and with whom? What are the action plans we need to craft? These are the challenges in the days and weeks ahead. Together, we must continue to thoughtfully engage in the hard work of creating positive change in our communities and across our nation.




I write when I am bothered...I am bothered tonight.
All day, I have watched social media and news with horror as protests borne out of an act of racial violence – the murder of George Floyd - turned to violent demonstrations and even riots. As an African American I fully understand the hurt, anger and utter frustration that drives us to this point. The psychological trauma inflicted on African Americans every time a black life is cut short unnecessarily by a uniformed officer, cannot be understated, nor can it be dismissed. However, we must govern ourselves strategically and with discipline. We are strong, resilient, committed and brilliant. We must organize, plan and use our collective voices to bring about the change we seek.

I am asking you to do three (3) things:

1) Control Your Coins - Consistent, sustained economic pressure. We must stop spending and investing our money into businesses that do not respect and appreciate our buying power. Do not shop in stores where you are followed, ignored or treated rudely. We must never reward ignorance or disrespect. Today we have seen individuals post cruel and racist statements, jokes and pictures. Take note of where those people work. Report them and refuse to support the businesses that employ them.

2) VOTE. NEVER allow an election to occur without casting your VOTE. Educate yourself on the issues that impact our communities and vote out prosecutors and other elected officials who turn a deaf ear on the needs of our people. Attend candidate forums, write letters, attend meetings, volunteer and yes, donate to the campaigns of the candidates you believe in. History has demonstrated that we are a powerful voting block and when we show up!

For many Americans, and for Black Americans in particular, the very soul of the nation seems in peril at the moment. 
The horrific murder of George Floyd, captured in all its public, brutal clarity, serves as a stark reminder of the divergences between the highest ideals of our society as posited by our founders and the stark, 400-year reality for black, brown and native Americans.  It is also a reminder of the fragility of the very lives of black people, including the life of Breonna Taylor, when intertwined with the nation’s criminal justice system. It begs the question: Why is this still happening?
At the same time, we reel from the disproportionate impacts on our community of COVID-19. The higher percentage of death and sickness is overwhelming. The accompanying, record-setting unemployment and economic hardship serve as a painful reminder of just some of the profound and enduring inequities in our society.

There is a great deal of pain. The protests around the country are manifestations of a cumulative national despair.  There is a well-earned weariness here – our community and those who support it have a right to be tired, frustrated and angry.  At the same time, the protests reflect a determination to make positive change, no matter the fatigue.   As our esteemed founder, Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune, teaches us, we must be resilient. We must be energetic in not accepting the status quo, and in not letting it deprive us of our future.  We can define society up.      
And with those protests, we condemn the violence and looting of the few and celebrate the voice of the many. We hold ourselves to a higher standard. We are also watchful of the reaction of authorities and our leaders—who themselves should be held to the same high standard.
We are reminded that great institutions like B-CU, born of trauma, poverty and racism, are very much on the front lines of enabling America to fulfill its highest aims and aspirations. B-CU and other HBCUs serve as both the mirror to and the conscience of the American ideal. The role our institutions assume in serving and healing America—and the role our amazing students will assume as future leaders—has never been more critical or evident.   
At B-CU, we serve students by intentionally exposing them to ideas and experiences that will enable them to discern between what is right and what is easy, and to recognize that with the education they receive, comes a responsibility to a greater good.  B-CU fulfills its mission, in part, by bridging the gap between talent and ability, and access and opportunity.  We serve this nation through harnessing the inextricable linkages – the shared existence – that many of us hold with the communities in which our institutions were born.  For B-CU, that happens to be the former city dump, Hell’s Hole, which was the only land available to our founder. Through determination, faith and a legacy of love she transformed it into our beautiful, enduring university campus.      
In the midst of our collective national trauma, B-CU will continue to live the ideals of its founder.  We will unconditionally love and support our students and one another.  We will do what we have always done – we will rise, support one another and we will affirm the very best of who we are and have always been as a community.   



The unrest following the abhorrent viral video of George Floyd’s murder has led many of us to have real conversations with our children and families about the ugly reality of racism in America; leaving a sense of hopelessness.

How can we tell our girls (and boys) they have the capability to become the next tech CEO and in the same breath detail precautions to take when encountering individuals who are supposed to protect and serve? How can we encourage our girls to show up in society as their authentic selves when we bear witness to countless incidents that illustrate the disregard for Black humanity? How do we tell our girls there are no limits on their dreams when even in the year 2020 racial barriers continue to pervade our daily lives? There is no specific code for how to handle these traumatic incidents when they arise, but we know it starts with being intentional about keeping our children informed, empowered, and hopeful.

At Black Girls CODE, the core of our mission is to empower young women of color between the ages of 7–17 to embrace the current tech marketplace as builders and creators by introducing them to skills in computer programming and technology. Yet the foundation of our work is about so much more than just teaching our girls to write a line of code. The focus of our work is centered on teaching our girls to embrace self-actualization, self-confidence, and self efficacy; we uplift racial justice and equity so that our girls can not only survive but thrive within spaces in the fullness of their unique selves.

We must not let these incidents diminish their sense of pride, but rather use them as fuel to face these obstacles head-on, go further, reach higher and rise. Staying true to the vision of creating brighter futures for our girls, our organization will be here to support our community through this difficult time and for every step on the journey towards healing. We want to express our gratitude to those who have rallied around BGC and have made contributions to ensure we can continue to do meaningful work, especially amid uncertain times.

At times like these we are even more assured that our work is timely and relevant. We will push on together to create space for a better world for our girls, their families, and the beloved community.
Blackcomputerher:
To our community: we are with you, and we are here for you. We are also working on new programming to support you and keep us connected. We'll share more soon, but in the meantime, stay safe and take care of yourselves. 

The Bluefield State College community is united in mourning the tragic and senseless death of George Floyd. Each of us should be deeply saddened by the hate that was expressed by this terrible act. The late Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. said, "We must learn to live together as brothers or we will perish together as fools." Racial discrimination cannot be tolerated in America. Bluefield State is a Historically Black College that serves a population that is diverse, but we are a community where each member must passionately embrace the belief that people of color cannot continue to suffer because of racism. We MUST resolve to love our brother, because hatred can destroy us all. The journey forward can only be made with heartfelt, lifelong, commitment to love, to forgive and to ask for forgiveness, and to listen and learn. We lift up our collective prayers for Mr. Floyd and his family, for the African American community- both locally and nationally- and for each other. The journey will be challenging, but it can also be infinitely rewarding. As Dr. King noted, "You don't have to see the whole staircase, just take the first step." -President, Robin Capehart, Bluefield State College
In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic and our efforts to restore campus operations, our nation has been rocked by acts of violence and ensuing unrest and disruption that have now occurred here in Boston. We are confronted, once again, by the grim reality of systemic racism in our country. The killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and others bring to the forefront these abhorrent elements in our society. At a time when we rely on our police more than ever, we watch painful examples of some officers breaking the public trust in the most egregious ways. These injustices are amplified by the vividly disparate impact of COVID-19 on African Americans in particular, as well as on other ethnic or minority communities.

We grieve for our country and those who are affected by systemic racism, just as we grieve for those afflicted by COVID-19. We will defeat COVID-19 using science and our collective will. We must commit the same will and energy to defeat systemic racism. We must reject the forces in our society that are driving us apart and commit ourselves to creating a just society.

In the current troubled climate, I believe our commitment to restoring our residential campus is made all the more important by the divisions in our country. We are working nonstop to restore campus operations for the fall and will shortly make more detailed announcements about this effort. This is critical because our residential community brings together students from every background to live and learn together, with our faculty, in an atmosphere that promotes mutual understanding and respect. And we are continually working to do this better for all members of the Boston University community. As I write you today, I recall the two months last spring when we witnessed the uniting effect on our community of the expanded Howard Thurman Center for Common Ground, before campus life was abruptly interrupted by the virus. Our return to our residential campus and our personal interactions with one another that are not mediated by a computer screen is essential to the critical work we must undertake to build a campus, a community, and a society that is free from systemic racism.

When we return to Commonwealth Avenue, life on campus will not look or be the same as it was last fall, but we can create a learning community that preserves Boston University as a beacon for the country and world. Such beacons are desperately needed in our country today. I look forward to welcoming you back to campus.
The tragic events unfolding in Minneapolis are yet another reminder that systemic discrimination and violence against African Americans still plague our society.

Since its founding, our Bowie State University community has stood for the inclusion of diverse cultures and voices, and has wholeheartedly condemned acts of violence and incivility. I am deeply troubled by the tragic death of another African American male, George Floyd, in Minneapolis and the rioting that is occurring in response.

We must not let this tragedy go unnoticed. I encourage the BSU community to continue listening to the voices of people of all races that are crying out for change. While I am disheartened by the events in Minneapolis, I know we are stronger when we stand together and use our voices for what we know is right and just for all.



George Floyd's killing was cruel, inhumane, and contemptible. The injustice of violence against black people must stop.

The history of our great university is intertwined with the pursuit of justice. Brandeis was created in response to antisemitism and bigotry. We cannot tolerate discrimination, hatred, or violence against another person based on their race, religion, or background. These values are as important today as they were at our founding.

These are not just words or noble ideas. These are principles that inspire us at Brandeis to educate, to learn, and to act.

With that in mind, I join with Mark Brimhall-Vargas, chief diversity officer, in calling for us to come together, even if virtually. In the message Mark sent on Friday, he mentioned two different events happening this week. The Heller School is hosting a conference, "Co-Constructing Racial Justice through Life and Work."And Mark will host "Coming Together to Face Systemic Racism."I hope you will join me in attending both.

As Brandeisians, not all of our experiences are shared ones. We come from different backgrounds and have different perspectives. But I know that there are some things we have in common. This includes an unwavering commitment to justice, equity, and inclusion. It includes respecting other people, no matter their background.

I hope to see you at one of the events tomorrow or the next day. Let us come together to express our commitment to ending racist violence.
We write to you today as leaders of this university to express first deep sadness, but also anger, regarding the racist incidents that continue to cut short the lives of black people every day.

The sadness comes from knowing that this is not a mere moment for our country. This is historical, lasting and persistent. Structures of power, deep-rooted histories of oppression, as well as prejudice, outright bigotry and hate, directly and personally affect the lives of millions of people in this nation every minute and every hour. Black people continue to live in fear for themselves, their children and their communities, at times in fear of the very systems and structures that are supposed to be in place to ensure safety and justice.

The anger comes from knowing that we have been here before, and in fact have never left. Rallies and protests across the country are raising voices about ongoing injustice in the wake of the killings of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, Breonna Taylor in Louisville, KY, and George Floyd in Minneapolis. As a nation, we might have thought there would be some real change after the deaths of Freddie Gray and Sandra Bland, both who died in police custody in 2015, a year in which some justice organizations reported more than 100 police shootings of unarmed black people in the United States. And this was after our nation mourned and protested the ongoing epidemic of racism with the 2014 deaths of Michael Brown, Eric Garner, Tamir Rice and countless others before and after that year.

All of these deaths "launched national conversations"about anti-black racism. And we know that so many in our community keep asking how many times these conversations have to happen before there is real change. We know there are so many in our community hurting and deeply frustrated, and things are made worse by a pandemic that doesn't allow us to be together and is disproportionately killing black people. We have not been able to gather in some of the ways that usually unite us to build collective understanding, mourn and make calls for action.

We hope that wherever you may be, you seek to effect change in your communities in the ways that make sense for you while preserving your health and safety in this time of COVID-19. And this does not apply only to members of our community residing in the United States. Tragic and traumatic examples of injustice against racial, ethnic and religious minorities persist around the world, resulting in horrific instances of brutality, incarceration and death. Our local and national government leaders need to hear from us as individual constituents in their communities consistently and persistently on issues of racial and ethnic injustice.

As a university, we have tremendous resources in our departments, centers and institutes that can help our community and our society interrogate the persistent and deeply disturbing issues related to race, racism and police violence in America. In the weeks and months to come, we will leverage the expertise of our faculty, staff and students to develop programming, courses and research opportunities designed to advance knowledge and promote essential change in policy and practice in the name of equity and justice.

We are a community that does not condone acts of racism, discrimination or violence. This cannot be accepted as "normal."We must continue to demand equity and justice for all people, inclusive of all identities. And we must continue to care for and support each other, especially in this time when we are apart.
George Floyd was killed last week by someone sworn to protect him – someone sworn to protect all of us and the liberties we enjoy. It was evil and ugly. And as Mr. Floyd begged to be allowed to breathe, other officers stood by and did nothing. 
Over the past week, I've been reflecting, like a lot of Americans. What should we do – and what should I do – in the face of evil? Americans are understandably very angry, and some have chosen to protest. The right to protest is among our most cherished freedoms, and I respect all who do so nonviolently.
Over the last few days, I have met with small groups of UTEP students, faculty, staff and alumni. I talked to them about their experiences at UTEP and in El Paso to learn if there were concerns about racism on our campus, and particularly in our campus police force.
I was pleased that, generally, people feel safe here, and they don't think that there is a problem in the UTEP police force. "El Paso is different,"several told me. Still, many feel like "a minority in a minority"and "sometimes invisible."Not all of our students know where to go or what to do if they have a problem, and many of them had ideas about how to make things better.     
It's up to all of us to ensure our country lives up to the ideals of a free and equal society, and there will be much that we will need to do in the coming months – as individuals and as a campus community. 
To begin with, I will be asking our Student Government Association, our Faculty Senate, and our Staff Council to recommend campus colleagues who will work with our Chief of Police to review our policies, procedures, practices and training so that we continue to build trust between the UTEP Police Department and those whom they are sworn to protect. Good organizations always try to be better.
UTEP has a proud legacy of breaking down barriers, as music professor Engebret Thormodsgaard did in 1956 when he cast 20-year-old Bernice Bell to play the heroine opposite a white man in an opera production staged in Magoffin Auditorium; and as Don Haskins and our men's basketball team did in 1966 at the NCAA national championship, forever changing college athletics in this country. UTEP was the first baccalaureate institution in Texas to desegregate; we have a legacy of creating opportunities for those historically underserved by higher education in America, with a student body that is over 90% minority in a top tier research university. 
UTEP will remain true to our legacy by doing good in the face of evil.

Even as our nation struggles to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to bear witness to the reality that systemic racism and injustice pervade our society. The deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery are but the latest examples of violent and dehumanizing acts of racism across the country. I am heartbroken and outraged by these tragedies, and I know that the CMU community around the world shares my concern for the victims’ families, and for those in our community who are most impacted by these hateful acts. Please know that we see you, we care about you and we are here for you. While I recognize I cannot fully understand the pain, anxiety and fear these events inflict on Black and African Americans, including many in our own community, I know that it is up to each one of us – no matter our background – to confront and dismantle racism and injustice wherever they exist.

At times like this we must reflect on what we can do to make society, including our own community, more just. It would be inadequate to restate our commitment to respect, value, and foster diversity, equity and inclusion across our community. We know we have much work to do to live out these values at Carnegie Mellon. Learning about each other’s lived experiences; engaging with and supporting colleagues; challenging injustice when we witness it; and, especially, actively listening to each other will truly help us build the campus climate we seek.

Uniting in the face of challenging times is the Carnegie Mellon way. Acts of solidarity at The Fence, community discussions and listening sessions have helped us all grieve and heal together. Although we cannot gather in traditional ways, we will be working in the days and weeks ahead to curate virtual opportunities to consider actions we as a community can take to be the change we wish to see in the world. In the meantime, we ask our entire community to come together, with humility, compassion and empathy, to support one another, including those who are feeling especially vulnerable now.

With great respect for you and every member of our community,

Six years later, the words are the same.

I can't breathe.

After all of the mourning and protests, the lawsuits and training, the promises made and lessons learned, nothing, it seems, has changed.

Lying on a Staten Island sidewalk in the summer of 2014, Eric Garner said "I can't breathe"nearly a dozen times as a police officer's arm stayed tight around his throat.

Last Monday in Minneapolis, George Floyd repeated the same phrase—in his case, with an officer's knee pressing into his neck.

The local protests that followed have spread across the country, reaching Cleveland on Saturday. Ours opened peacefully, but devolved soon after marchers reached the Justice Center a few blocks away. Protesters pitched water bottles and spray-painted walls, officers released tear gas canisters, and before long, police cars were engulfed in flames.

Today protests continued in communities nationwide—and even extended to London and Berlin. In Cleveland, meanwhile, officials announced a noon curfew for downtown to allow time for clean-up of streets and stores.

But what about the systemic racism cited so often in recent days? How can a city, a country, "clean up"that?

We cannot—should not—ever try to wipe away the past.

We need to know it. Own it. And commit to forging a better future.

Four months after Eric Garner died in 2014, Tamir Rice was shot and killed by police while playing with a toy gun outside a Cleveland recreation center.

He was 12 years old.

The following year, the city accepted a 110-page settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice. The document required sweeping reforms to address the department's record of excessive force and urgent need to restore community trust.

The monitoring team's most recent report, issued in September, found force incidents fell by nearly a third compared to 2017.

That team, including deputy monitor Ayesha Bell Hardaway of our law school, still found shortcomings, in particular in terms of resources for training and data systems. Nevertheless, the group concluded the department had made "substantial progress."

While the medical examiner ruled Garner's death a homicide, the officer who choked him never faced charges. Nor did the one who killed Tamir. On Friday, Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin was arrested and charged with third-degree murder. He appears in court tomorrow.

Small steps, true. But in a moment of so much anger… and pain… and sorrow, they matter.

In the often-quoted words of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. "…the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."

As an institution of higher learning, we have a profound responsibility to the future. When it comes to this moment, how can we best begin to fulfill it?

This week, we will provide opportunities to engage, and share resources for those who would like support. Tonight, though, we want to remind you of a part of our legacy: The first Commencement address Frederick Douglass ever gave came at Western Reserve College in 1854.

"The relation subsisting between the white and black people of this country is the vital question of the age,"he told some 3,000 in attendance. "In the solution of this question, the scholars of America will have to take an important… part."




As we navigate these unprecedented times, we are now forced to deal with a series of tragic events. The unconscionable deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery were unnecessary incidents that have drawn national and international attention. Many people realize that this can and should be the moment to move America forward — into an era of social and economic justice, equity, and stability. We, as a nation, must do better.

Representing the two oldest Historically Black Colleges and Universities in our nation — Cheyney University of Pennsylvania and Lincoln University of Pennsylvania — we stand together against racial injustice. America's HBCUs are in a unique position to be at the forefront of this effort. Our institutions exist because there was a time when universities did not accept African Americans into the ranks of their student population, so we created our own. Now, more than ever, our vision and our voices must be heard.

We call on our students to focus their energy on bringing constructive change to the society in which we live. We ask them to use the modern technology and resources that previous generations did not have as the means to adapt, to overcome inequities and to change our communities for the better. Most importantly, we want our students to stay safe at all times, whether they decide to express their voices at home or in person at peaceful demonstrations.

We are reminded of the words of two prominent alumni of our storied institutions. They are just as relevant today as when they were first spoken and penned:

"…We do solemnly pledge ourselves to assist by our means any suit brought against the perpetrators of outrages…"

– Octavius V. Catto, Cheyney University, Class of 1858

"O, let my land be a land where Liberty
Is crowned with no false patriotic wreath,
But opportunity is real, and life is free,
Equality is in the air we breathe."

– Langston Hughes, Lincoln University, Class of 1929

We are in challenging times that require unity and a sense of purpose. Cheyney University and Lincoln University stand united in the fight for social justice.

Regrettably, African Americans are continuing to be targeted across our great nation. The Claflin University community calls for prayers for the family of George Floyd and all other victims of reported aggression by law enforcement against African Americans and people of color.
After the protests have ended, America must find ways to heal by restoring "Peace with Justice." The work will be hard, but through transformative education, unity, and a true commitment for a changed nation we can move forward.
Corrective action strategies must reflect immediate tools for corrective systemic and cultural change. Only through transformative education, is it possible for shifts in both behavior and mindsets to occur toward more positive humanistic outcomes.
In essence, a cultural shift must occur throughout all of society, especially police precincts, court systems, and prosecutors. Society can no longer tolerate:
•        Treatment of African Americans as second-class citizens.
•        Hasty and unjustified judgment based on the color of one's skin.
•        Excessive harm and brutality to African Americans by law enforcement officers
•        Education and more effective training of law enforcement officers are needed within training academies, and all systems governing the safety of our nation's citizens. African Americans must cease to be marginalized, brutalized and/or murdered by justice systems based on ethnicity.
The pathways for transformation in thinking and shifts in mindsets against such brutality is at the heart of Claflin University's new Center for Social Justice. Our Center will work across disciplines, communities, and demographics, to be a game changer regionally, nationally, and internationally. Our Center, though its programming, will foster collaborations and greater understanding of social justice issues throughout the region and beyond.

Claflin University, the first historically black college and university in South Carolina, is the place where the lives of young African Americans have been shaped for the future for more than 150 years. As such, we see it as our role and mission to be the place to re-shape systems and faulty mindsets that continue to marginalize and bring harm to these future leaders. We desire to be the catalyst for:
•        Helping justice workers around the nation learn how to embrace diversity.
•        Restoring "Peace with Justice."
•        Reducing violence against African Americans.
Our response to the continued violence against African Americans indicates a need for immediate cultural shifts in how African Americans are treated by reported "peacekeepers" around the nation. While many law enforcement officers are performing their duty with dignity and respect toward the public, there still remain too many others who abuse their roles. African Americans are dying and suffering at the hands of many law enforcement officers due to systemic racism and faulty underlying psycho-cultural assimilated orientations of race. While the current protests highlight this crisis, a real solution involves immediate and systemic change in both the mindset and behaviors of everyone involved in all areas of law enforcement and the criminal justice system, past and present.
The Center for Social Justice will provide a platform for our mission to lead a national movement of change. The following is a list of the Center's upcoming projects and activities that will affirm our leadership in this national movement.
1. Day of Reflection Vigil in memory of George Floyd and other recent victims of reported aggression by law enforcement against African Americans and people of color. This vigil, scheduled for June 19, will be a virtual event given the accelerated numbers of COVID-19 across the U.S., the increased risk of African Americans contracting COVID-19, and the number of people across the U.S. and the world who will join our prayer vigil.
2. Transformative action within the highest levels of government. Claflin University is calling on the U.S Department of Justice to partner with us to change the systemic violence towards African Americans throughout this country.
3. Transformative action with partners around the nation. Claflin University will convene the first National Summit for ending violence against African Americans. The Summit will unveil the infusion of anti-racist training resources to adequately support the training and empowerment of all levels of people involved in law enforcement across the country (developed by Claflin University) to confront both conscious and unconscious marginalizing views of minority groups. Representatives from various law enforcement agencies across the nation; HBCUs; UNCF; NAACP; local, state, and national representatives; and other local and national community groups will participate.
4. Annual training and certification programs will be offered to employees at all levels of law enforcement and the criminal justice system through our Center. The focus will be on cultural competencies, urban/rural policing, emotional intelligence and race relations.
5. The development of a "Peace with Justice Covenantal Statement" to be signed by all law enforcement officers prior to beginning service at their respective agencies.
6. The development of agreed upon actions to be taken by both African Americans and law enforcement in the event, for example, behavior after a traffic stop by law enforcement officers.
7. The development of a "Bill of Rights" for African Americans who feel they are being targeted because of their race which will carry a review by boards governing all areas of law enforcement.
Through these initiatives coordinated through the Center of Social Justice, Claflin University will remain at the forefront in the struggle for social justice, economic empowerment, and political equality.


Over the past several days, Clarkson University has joined the nation in grieving the death of George Floyd. The subsequent protests are more than just a response to an isolated incident. Change is necessary.
Clarkson’s core values call us to work towards addressing deep-rooted issues of racial inequality at the heart of these events. We must do so both locally and nationally through intentional actions and with respect to the dignity of our community members.
To our students, employees and alumni who are hurting, we offer our support and our resources.
For those who want to do something to make a difference,  by using our individual and collective voices participate in our Community Meeting on Thursday, June 4 at 7pm Eastern time
connect to the Clarkson community members below and reach out to your elected officials (https://usa.gov/elected-officials) to share the change you want.
I, like many others, am deeply saddened by recent tragic events nationwide and the deep divisions that still threaten our ability to move ahead as one nation.

Let there be no doubt: Racism, injustice, violence, brutality and hatred, in any form, cannot be tolerated.

Amid the turbulent times of 2020, we find our Clemson family physically apart due to COVID-19. Still, we can and should reach out to those in our family who are hurting or in need.

We also can put into practice our Clemson values: We value the rights of others. We are respectful of each other and our individual differences, beliefs and ideas. We actively listen and communicate. We seek to understand one another’s challenges, and are tolerant and forgiving.  And, we come from diverse backgrounds that make up one inclusive Clemson Family.

Our work is not only in the moment, but it also lies in the daily development of our University community, as we work to ensure that everyone feels welcome and valued as a part of this Clemson Family.

As we continue to prepare our campus for the return of our full community this fall, we must keep working to repair the world every day, step by step, to make Clemson and our world a better place for us all.

We can, and must, do better if we are to build a truly inclusive Clemson community. That work has never been more important than it is right now.

My entire leadership team and I are committed to continued progress in this area. Should anyone have ideas they would like to share with us, I encourage you to reach out to us at UnitedClemson@clemson.edu.


It pains us to see racism grip our nation and cause suffering in Black communities. This must stop.
Code.org stands together with the black community- our employees, partners, teachers, and their students-in the fight against the systemic inequity, racism, and injustice in the United States.

I have been contemplating the role of a university, especially in times of great crisis, this last week of May 2020 when the right words are so hard to come by. At William & Mary, one important role is continually to call ourselves to awareness of our history, in the present. As the great American writer James Baldwin taught us, "not everything that is faced can be changed, but nothing can be changed until it is faced."

None of us can ignore the turmoil, the heartbreak, of the racial divisions in our country — a cascade of grief for Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd has brought it to the fore. The racism and injustice we continue to witness bring grievous hurt to our communities. It comes to us at a moment when so many in this nation and the world are vulnerable, intensifying the loss and weariness of pandemic. We are facing again the legacy of our country's founding, that did not recognize the full humanity of all peoples. African Americans in our communities are asking, in this moment, do you recognize my full humanity? We do. We will face this with you.

A critical role of a university at moments of crisis is to rededicate ourselves to the propositions that sustain a pluralistic democracy. We recognize that we are still far from realizing them for all: fairness, respect for the human dignity of others, evidence-based argument, scientific discovery, the pursuit of opportunity and safety and equal justice under the law.

As a public university in Virginia, dedicated to the perpetuity of democratic institutions, it has never been more important that we commit ourselves to change that advances these values. We must find it within ourselves to look for hope. And as we face unspeakable acts, we must be there to help lift one another's heavy hearts — so we can study together, learn and work together, toward a more humane and free world. The past week's events demonstrate how much farther we have to go.

As we search for paths forward during these uncertain times, the role of a university provides some clarity and William & Mary's core values of belonging, respect and integrity provide direction. The diverse communities and perspectives we convene — to grapple with our imperfections and our legacies of inequality — are our best hope for empowering those who study here to build our future together.
Dear Mines Community,
For the past week, the news has been dominated by the tragic death of George Floyd and the ensuing protests, civil unrest and destruction. It has been difficult to watch and to process—the wrongness of the death, the intense anger and emotion of the protestors and the widely varying responses of our elected leaders.
Events like this and others over the past few years force us to face the uncomfortable reality that racism and bias are prevalent and persistent. They also provide the impetus for us, as individuals and the Mines community, to reflect on who we are, what we stand for and what we should do going forward.
We are a caring community that has embraced and is working toward achieving the aspirations expressed in our strategic plan for diversity, inclusion and access. We naturally feel for victims of racism and bias, we hurt when members of our community are hurt and we have pledged to create a community that supports the education and careers of students, staff and faculty from all backgrounds.
Our Achilles heel is that many of us do not understand with depth the issues at play today. Most of us do not come from backgrounds where we have had to endure racism—either based on the color of our skin or our country of origin. This can make us blind to our biases and unable to see the actions we need to take to support the success of all members of our community. How many of us can imagine being raised with a deep-seated fear of law enforcement personnel or being concerned for our life when going out for a run? That is reality for some members of our community.
In response to current events, we wanted to do something more than just issue a campus note that expresses outrage or rejects persistent and systemic racism and promises a better future. We decided instead to use this opportunity to challenge ourselves as campus leaders and all of you as community members to learn how to be more effective advocates and allies for those who experience racism and to develop a deeper understanding of the law enforcement community.
Our Mines DI&A team will follow up with our plan for the former—they already have a list of resources for you to learn more, ways for us to take meaningful action and opportunities for new campus programming. Our Mines Police Department is taking the lead on the second topic. They will be sending an email telling us a little about themselves, their training and programs and the town hall-style discussion they envision that includes participants from our police department and local law enforcement professionals from surrounding communities.
In the last few months, we have seen how individual and collective action can flatten curves and change outcomes. As we have faced the COVID-19 pandemic, we have become adept at putting aside our own self-interests and acted on behalf of our neighbors and larger society. We have spent hours educating ourselves about a menacing threat and using that information to adjust both our actions and our thinking. We can do the same thing, climbing together, as we progress toward creating the community we aspire to have at Mines.
And, as always, we are interested in your thoughts and suggestions.
Stay well and stay safe, Orediggers,
Paul C. Johnson, President and Professor
Amy Landis, Professor and Presidential Faculty Fellow for Access, Attainment and Diversity
Dan Fox, Vice President of Student Life
Dustin Olson, Chief of Police and Director of Public Safety
Rick Holz, Provost and Professor
Kirsten Volpi, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
As protestors gather in cities around the country to express their outrage over the atrocity of George Floyd's death, and as we grieve other incidents of hate and violence perpetrated against people of color—from Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky to Tony McDade in Florida and Chris Cooper in New York, we are united in our anguish and anger.

To the Black members of our community who are hurting so badly, your friends and colleagues all wish we could ease your pain. We are heartbroken for the families of those who have died at the hands of hate and for those who have endured racist incidents they will never forget. We are heartbroken for those protestors who have come together to be heard and who have been met with violence. And we are heartbroken for the young people around our country who must be watching and reading the news and wondering, "When will it stop? When will it change?"

As President of Colorado State, I affirm that it is not enough to commit to being a university and a community where hate and bias and racism are not tolerated. We are committed to being anti-hate, anti-bias, and anti-racist.

And because I recognize the inadequacy of my words during this painful and uncertain time, I urge all of you to read the powerful statement that the Office of the Vice President for Diversity released this morning. I echo their words, in hope that doing so brings some comfort:

To our Black and African American community members: we see you and we are here for you. Our hearts are with you. Our words and actions are with you.
I am writing in both a personal and an institutional capacity. Like everyone, I have been reflecting on the events of the last week with an increasing sense of anguish at the human suffering we are witnessing and of alarm at the national crisis we are facing in our political system.

Until last Friday, I did not think it was possible for me to forget even for a moment that we are in the midst of an historic pandemic, bringing untold human loss and crossing a numerical threshold of unimaginable proportions. But the horrifying ending of the life of George Floyd, a citizen in the very system of justice intended to protect him, and us, which then, along with other recent tragic deaths, drew back the curtains on centuries of invidious discrimination against African Americans, and others, did that. My hopes for a renewed sense of national purpose to continue the heroic efforts of so many, over so many generations, to change once and for all that terrible course of history have been raised, and then deflated. We are at a point in our history where political leadership is not only absent but also disturbingly confounding of the fundamental norms and values that take years and years of hard and determined work to develop—and yet are always so fragile when pitted against the worst instincts of human nature. My concerns here are not partisan, but basic to our culture.

Like so many others here, I have chosen to dedicate my life to sustaining and building academic institutions, and my beloved Columbia, specifically. There is no question that the expectations of intellectual character we choose to live by in the academic world are extreme, and we cannot reasonably expect them to set the bar for ordinary political deliberations and interactions. But what we are seeing today—which unfortunately included just in the last week an unfounded attack on our research and researchers, as well as on the University itself-is at the opposite end of the spectrum. If this were a single incident, that would be one thing, but in the current way of behaving, these become acts of intimidation and dangerous mischaracterization of expertise, one of the hallmarks of a descent into authoritarianism.

In the face of all this, it is only a start to express empathy and solidarity with those in our community who are experiencing loss and apprehension. But I certainly do so here, on behalf of all of us. Universities are not perfect and we have to accept our share of responsibility for the state of affairs we have today. But we are determined, even more so now, to change and to be better. More than anything we will continue to provide the society and the world with all the knowledge we can preserve and create and with a new generation of citizens and leaders who are prepared to live by, and fight for, the values of respect for reason, the love of ideas, and the wish to use these to care for others. 

We say it often and we don’t say it lightly: one of Concordia’s greatest strengths is our diversity.

As a university with international reach, our thoughts are with Black communities across North America as yet another horrifying incident of racist police brutality exposes the terrible grip that systemic racism continues to wield in our contemporary world.

Before Concordia became the university it is today, events in the late 1960s at one of our founding institutions, Sir George Williams University, changed the discussion about racism in Canada. Our campus has long been known for its accessibility and openness, offering opportunities to individuals and communities who were not finding them elsewhere.

Concordia does not tolerate racism or violence of any sort. The university stands in solidarity with those who combat hatred in any form through peaceful means.

We will continue to promote our values of diversity, equity and respect on campus for all. We must also recognize that we are many voices at the university. We come from profoundly different backgrounds and social positions.

With this reality in mind, two years ago Concordia launched a three-phase consultation to develop a strategy for advancing Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) in all aspects of university life. It happens that right now we’re entering the final stage of that process and will be hosting consultation sessions this month to present our findings. 

This isn’t the time or place to recite the initiatives Concordia has undertaken to address racism. Instead, it is, unfortunately, another occasion to acknowledge that there is much more to do as we pursue our mission to create a more just society and brighter future for all through education.

Finally, we recognize that many members of the university community may need support right now. Concordia has people ready to listen.

    Please visit the International Students Office, Multi-Faith and Spirituality Centre, Health Services and/or Counselling and Psychological Services.
    Students can also call Empower Me at 1-844-741-6389 for 24/7 counselling support over the phone.
    Employees can contact the Employee Assistance Program at 1-800-663-1142 (English) or 1-866-398-9505 (French).

The events of the past week come at an especially trying time. It is customary to say of COVID-19 that we are all in this together. And we are. But the past several days are a stark reminder that the health of society also depends on other forms of collective vigilance.

     Like so many of you, my family and I have been reeling over the events of the past week – events for which words seem inadequate. The images we have seen and the sounds we have heard have horrified us and broken our hearts. We are ashamed of the injustices that are perpetrated in our country, every day, against people of color; and of the reality that 155 years after Cornell was founded to help heal the wounds of a broken nation, that nation is, in many ways, still so badly broken.

    The extraordinary times in which we are living are shining a spotlight on so many issues of equity, and the lack of it: on the ways that rights and opportunity are unevenly distributed across our society, and the worth of our labor and our lives unequally valued. As an academic community built on the bedrock values of diversity, inclusion, and openness, we have an obligation to ensure that the forces of these events and our feelings drive us not backward, but forward. Over these past days, the words that have resonated with me the most, as I have struggled with the question of how our community can best embrace our collective challenge, are those of the Rev. William J. Barber II, spoken to an empty church in Goldsboro, North Carolina, this past Sunday: "We cannot try to hurry up and put the screams and the tears and the hurt back in the bottle, just to get back to some normal that was abnormal in the first place. Hear the screams. Feel the tears. The very people who have been rejected over and over again are the ones who have shown us the possibility of a more perfect nation."

    Words are important. Words matter. But our words – of sympathy, of support, of shared pain – are not enough. While the challenges are enormous, and we cannot fix them on our own, that does not absolve us from taking whatever steps we can to fight against systemic racism and structural inequality. As a community, we can and must act, through our teaching, our research, and our engagement, to stand up for those who are oppressed or marginalized, to educate ourselves and others, and to work to ensure that we – our entire society – do better.

    Here are some of the things that Cornell will do immediately:

    Strengthen Community Involvement in Public Safety

    Cornell's Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) is composed of students, staff and faculty members who advise Cornell University Police on issues of public safety and victims' advocacy. The committee, which last met in April, makes recommendations to improve campus security policies and procedures and reviews issues that affect the overall safety and well-being of Cornell's diverse community. I have asked the PSAC to redouble their efforts to engage our community, with a specific focus on procedures and training in the areas of use of force, de-escalation techniques, and cultural competency.

    Summit with Regional Law Enforcement Agencies

    In addition to the work of the PSAC, the university administration has convened discussions in recent years with representatives of regional law enforcement agencies, including Cornell University Police, the Ithaca Police Department, the Tompkins County Sheriff's Office, and the New York State Police. These conversations have touched on shared interests, with a focus on understanding and sharing best practices around law enforcement interactions with communities of color. We will organize another session as soon as possible and include student, staff and faculty representatives in this important, ongoing conversation.

    Community Conversations on Race and Racism

    Using the community chat framework, the Office of Human Resources will be offering 75-minute Zoom sessions on topics such as institutional racism and the context of the current protests, ways to be an ally to our Black colleagues, and how to engage in proactive and meaningful dialogue around difficult topics such as racism. Details on the programs, and information on how to register, will be sent to all staff and faculty members by Vice President Mary Opperman early next week.

    Campus Community Book Read

    As a campus community, we have a collective responsibility to engage in difficult but critical conversations – to listen genuinely to, and learn from, one another. To help bring focus to these conversations, I invite all of you to participate in a Community Book Read of "How to Be an Antiracist," by National Book Award winner Ibram X. Kendi. We will soon provide all students, faculty, and staff with information about how to access an electronic copy of the book, along with a schedule of virtual discussions which will take place over the summer. I hope you will choose to read the book and to join in the conversation.

    Dialogue with Local Community Leaders

    I will be meeting next week with a diverse group of local elected, nonprofit, business, and faith community leaders to review the events of the last few weeks and consider how we might advance town-gown initiatives to further support the needs of our friends and neighbors.

    These plans are in addition to the ongoing work of the Belonging at Cornell framework that emerged from our diversity and inclusion initiatives, many of which were proposed by the President's Task Force on Campus Climate and/or the Provost's Task Force to Enhance Faculty Diversity. More than three-quarters of the goals laid out by the Task Force in 2018 have now been achieved, including the creation of a mandatory Intergroup Dialogue Project experience for all new undergraduates, an improved bias reporting process, implicit bias training for all faculty search committees, and increased support from the provost for faculty hires that advance diversity.

    All of this work will continue, but so much more needs to be done, at Cornell and beyond. I want to close by echoing the words of the Rev. Barber, in saying that there will be no return to "normal" from where we are right now. We are in a time of profound societal change – change that we, as a community and a society, have the power to influence and to shape. We can, and we will, rise to this challenge. Our own consciences demand it, as do our values as a community, and our ethos as Cornellians.
The amount of pain and suffering we are witnessing and feeling is only a snapshot of a broader social reality. We, and everyone before us, have had a role in arriving at where we are today. As such, it is of paramount importance to step up and take a stance. It is our responsibility and a moral imperative to not stand by and simply witness the events around us. We must collectively find our voice and reject racism and inequality. Silence perpetuates, doubt reinforces, and rationalization of incident after incident only compounds the pain so many in our society continue to endure.
While CRA has a long history of celebrating, promoting, and advocating for inclusivity, we cannot be satisfied with continuing the status quo. We will continue to actively stand against discrimination and hatred. We will find new ways to use our voice in Washington to advocate for policies that address the inequities that exist in our field. We will amplify the efforts of our membership organizations wherever we can to help them improve the spaces they occupy and create an environment that is more welcoming, just, and equitable to all. Only together can we begin to right the long history of wrongs that have led us to this place and time.

We start with acknowledging the issues by talking to those around us and explicitly stating that we stand with them when they stand against discrimination and hatred.
We know that racism:
•        Is systemic and institutionalized, was intentionally designed, and established well before the foundation of our nation.
•        Continues to oppress people of color around the world – denying basic human rights, denying opportunity, and even more tragically denying many of their very lives.
•        Is learned behavior that may be unlearned through education, compassion, empathy, and action.
•        Drives a wedge between communities, and in doing so limits the enviable quest for a society steeped in respect.
•        The privileged benefit from its existence and must be willing to sacrifice to overcome it.
•        Lives in our homes, schools, workplaces, parks, churches, stores, amusement parks, government, law enforcement – it lives in us all to varying degrees.
To stand against it, we:
•        Acknowledge the existence of racism within our communities and commit to defeating it.
•        Call out and reject rationalization of incidents and distortion of information.
•        Educate ourselves and those around us to be better equipped to address racism in its many forms.
•        Stand up against the status quo by using our voice and agency.
•        Commit to systemic change in laws, policies, procedures, etc.
•        Dedicate all necessary resources to create lasting change.

We stand in solidarity against racism and injustice. #BlackLivesMatter #CSforALL:  As CSforALL, we acknowledge that current systems are inherently flawed, biased, and unequal. Today, in solidarity with the fight against systematic racism and white supremacy, we say this with increased emphasis. CURRENT SYSTEMS ARE INHERENTLY FLAWED, BIASED, AND UNEQUAL.

We extend our support to ALL who are actively working to identify, change, repair, and replace the systems that cultivate inequity.

Educational equity can never exist in communities where life and liberty are not fundamental rights.

#BLACKLIVESMATTER 




The tragedy of George Floyd's death in Minneapolis is heartbreaking, yet all too familiar. From Trayvon Martin to Eric Garner to Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor, as well as earlier this week in Central Park, we have seen too many deaths and incidents of harassment perpetrated against the African American community. Racism and its deadly consequences are rooted in United States history. Slavery and its legacy live on, and these incidents make all too real the impact of this history.

In the past few weeks, we have witnessed the jarring violence of racism in images in the news and social media. Even in such unsettling times, these events are still occurring and prove that our country is still not immune to racism and the hatred it brings. These events cause grief, sadness, anger and frustration at our inability to conquer racism and protect our loved ones and our communities.

In our grief, let us pledge to work for change, to seek reform and to hold each other accountable for taking a stand against injustice. Let us work to become instruments of peace. As Dr. Reverend Martin Luther King once said, “Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate; only love can do that." In these times of darkness, let us protect and care for one another. The DePaul University community will stand together in solidarity against racism and hate.

At DePaul we are not indifferent when we see that the dignity of entire communities is not respected; whether it be through violent conflict, subtle discrimination, overt negligence of rights, or words and actions of hatred. These facts continue to generate anxiety and suffering, driving communities apart and putting peace, development and democracy under mounting pressure. We are DePaul, a united diverse community. Following the inspiration of St. Vincent de Paul, we promote, respect and protect the dignity of all.

For those who are struggling with recent events, I want to remind community members that University Counseling Services and the Religious Diversity and Pastoral Care offices are sources of support for those who seek assistance in these stressful times. 

We in the Drexel community are disheartened, disturbed and enraged by the pervasiveness of racism and violence against African Americans — most recently, George Floyd's senseless death in Minneapolis police custody, which prompted the demonstrations in Philadelphia and every other major city.

The tragedy of George Floyd's death, and the recent killings of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky, are just the latest examples of our nation's abject failure to address the root causes of inequality. At a time when the African American community is bearing a disproportionately heavy burden from the COVID-19 pandemic, this unrelenting racial violence against the black community exacts a tremendous physical and emotional toll.

We are living in what the American Psychological Association has described as a "racism pandemic" that exacts a heavy emotional toll. We understand that black individuals carry an additional burden of fear and anxiety, simply by nature of the color of their skin. As the APA states, "If you're black in America — and especially if you are a black male – it's not safe to go birding in Central Park, to meet friends at a Philadelphia Starbucks, to pick up trash in front of your own home in Colorado or to go shopping almost anywhere."

We are painfully aware that our campus community is suffering, and that anger and fear are dominating the lives of many of our students, faculty, professional staff and alumni. Many students in Philadelphia are on the front lines of peaceful protest in this city, and students who are home in other parts of the country are doing the same. They are rightly shocked when they are met with resistance. We are proud of their activism and courage, and we support their actions.

At times like this, it is imperative that we harness the values of our campus community to insist on change wherever we are, change in our country and change on our campus. As a university community, we can strive for an extra measure of compassion and understanding as we move forward to action. We can take the time to listen to one another, to have hard conversations about racism, to confront uncomfortable truths about ideologies of white supremacy, and to use what we learn to create an anti-racist campus free from intolerance and hatred. These dialogues are a first step to create a more equitable community as an ongoing aspiration for our University.

On Friday, June 5, at 12:30 p.m., we are opening up a space for dialogue about racism and the difficult path forward to become active allies in the fight against racism. We hope you will join this dialogue and let us know your plan to attend this inaugural virtual conversation by responding at this online link.

We call on all members of the Drexel community to insist on a more just and equitable future, and to speak out in peaceful but defiant resistance to the racial injustice endured by the African American community. We stand with the Drexel community — our students, faculty, professional staff, trustees and alumni – in calling for an end to the racism and discrimination in our country.

We hope you will join this dialogue on Friday and for future conversations, and we urge you to stay safe.
This week, as the United States passed the grim milestone of 100,000 lives lost to the coronavirus, the horrifying death of George Floyd has drawn national attention to fundamental and systematic disparities of justice in our nation. The events in Minneapolis have occurred on the heels of the murder of Ahmaud Arbery, the shooting of Breonna Taylor and in the context of the disproportionate impacts of COVID-19 on communities of color, including here in Durham. For many people at Duke and elsewhere, the pain, trauma and sense of hopelessness is overwhelming.

Every day, throughout our country, African American and other marginalized communities have their safety and dignity threatened—in their places of work, in public spaces, and in their homes and neighborhoods. This ongoing history of structural and sustained racism is a fundamental and deeply distressing injustice, here as elsewhere.

But we as a university must do more than recognize and grieve these circumstances; we must work together to change them.  In our Duke statement of values, we affirm our commitment to trust, respect, and inclusion. In that spirit, Duke University will continue the work of addressing generations of racism and injustice, of seeking ways to approach one another with respect, and of building communities that are truly safe, supportive, and inclusive for all.

My very best wishes to the entire Duke family in this troubling time.
The ECEP leadership team acknowledges that our work to broaden participation in computing will only have its full desired impact if we actively confront the systemic racism that has led to the current state of affairs in this country:
As advocates for equity in CS, we must, in both words and action, challenge the deeply ingrained structural racism permeating our culture and our educational systems. Real and lasting change will require ALL of us to dismantle structural inequities by engaging as allies and advocates for change.



As Emory leaders speak out against racist violence, the community will come together Friday, June 5, to unite for an anti-racist world.

A university-wide online solidarity vigil is set for 4 p.m. Friday. Earlier in the day, the Emory medicine community will hold "White Coats for Black Lives" events on the Emory Quadrangle and at six hospitals. Masks and social distancing will be mandatory.

"All of us are grappling with the violent deaths of Georgia resident Ahmaud Arbery, Minneapolis citizen George Floyd, Kentucky citizen Breonna Taylor, and too many other instances of racism and violence against people of color," Emory President Claire E. Sterk said in a message sent to the Emory community May 30. "These senseless acts strike at the heart of Emory's commitment to upholding equity, diversity and inclusion. Now, more than ever, we must stand together against intolerance and racism." 

Sterk will speak at Friday's online solidarity vigil, which is hosted by the Office of Spiritual and Religious Life along with Campus Life. Other speakers include Carol Henderson, vice provost for diversity and inclusion and chief diversity officer; LaNita Campbell, director of the Office for Racial and Cultural Engagement; the Rev. Greg McGonigle, university chaplain and dean of religious life; and Olivia Johnson, a student in the Laney Graduate School.

The event will also include a reading from Jericho Brown, Emory's Winship Distinguished Research Professor in Creative Writing, who recently won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry. Attendees should register to attend and are encouraged to light a candle for those who have died.

 "The Emory community stands for justice in all aspects of our mission, and when confronted with hatred and prejudice, we must speak out," Sterk emphasized in her message. "Emory respects the dignity and value of all human beings, and our community will continue to engage in conversations that matter, no matter how difficult the dialogue, so that together, we might seek a more just and equitable world for all."

Emory President-elect Gregory L. Fenves, who takes the helm of the university Aug. 1, sent a message to the community June 2 reflecting on the tragedies of the past weeks and the protests in Atlanta and across the nation.

"The murder of George Floyd, under the knee of a police officer, horrified me as a human being and as an American," Fenves said. "Mr. Floyd's death, coming in the wake of so many other killings of African American citizens — including Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia — has unleashed anger and outrage about systemic racism that has not been addressed more than 60 years after the Civil Rights Movement started. We are still fighting the same battles and people have had enough — of racist violence, of organized hatred and of longstanding social inequities." 

But amid the despair, the Emory community has the ability to lead change "through education, research, health care and creative expression, but also by leading with your hearts," he continued, noting that he learned from his father that "it is our duty to speak up — to not be silent — so that injustice could be rooted out and overcome. 

"It is my hope, then, that the tragedy of George Floyd's murder and those before him will awaken us all to our deepest flaws and help us heal, change and create a better future, together," Fenves said.

Interim Provost Jan Love called on the Emory community to remember that "education is only one tool, but it is powerful" and to note that the university's motto — "the wise heart seeks knowledge" — "deliberately combines head and heart."

"Righteous rage is a healthy immediate emotion in response to the outrageous violence we are witnessing perpetrated against black people," Love said in June 3 message to the Emory community. "If you want to be part of meaningful, productive and life-giving change, definitely get mad, but then get busy. We all have work to do. Let's do it together."
White Coats for Black Lives

The Emory School of Medicine community will gather in seven locations earlier on Friday for "White Coats for Black Lives" events. Participants will kneel for 8 minutes and 46 seconds in remembrance of George Floyd, as well as countless other victims of racist violence. 

"Our aspirations for a racism-free world seem so very, very far away. For that, we should all be sad, angry, and at the same time energized to do all that we can to serve as forces of change to support each other, regardless of race, and to confront both racism and the racists who would seek to divide and damage," Emory Healthcare CEO Jonathan S. Lewin said in May 30 message. 

The events take place at 1 p.m. and all are welcome to attend; masks and social distancing will be mandatory. Locations include the following: 

    School of Medicine and Clifton Campus (EUH): Emory Quadrangle
    Emory University Hospital Midtown: Orr Building Courtyard
    Emory Saint Joseph's Hospital: Meditation Garden
    Emory Johns Creek Hospital: Classrooms A & B, Lower Level
    Emory Decatur Hospital: Front Plaza by the flagpole
    Emory Hillandale Hospital: Main Entrance
    Grady Memorial Hospital: Main Entrance on the corner of Jesse Hill and Gilmer Street





Our world is in pain, from ills both medically treatable and socially teachable. Florida Tech is proud to have one of the most diverse student populations of any U.S. university. Justice and equality are core principles that we value here, and education sheds light where there otherwise was darkness. I look forward to the conversations we will have as a community of learners when students arrive for fall classes. Until then, I hope that all of you stay safe and healthy, open your minds to ideas that make you uncomfortable, and always treat your fellow humans with dignity and respect.




We are going to keep this statement brief. Words are failing all of us in the wake of George Floyd's murder. When leaders reach for words like outrage, horror, or despair, they only do more damage when they are not matched by action. As James Baldwin once famously said, "I can't believe what you say, because I see what you do."

So, no words without action. We are determined to keep George Mason University true to its motto, to be a place of "freedom and learning."We will take whatever steps are necessary to ensure every member of Mason Nation, and every visitor to our campuses, is safe: physically safe, emotionally safe, culturally safe, and intellectually safe, to become who they want to be.

To do that, today we directed the senior leadership of Mason to conduct a thorough review of our academic, research, public service, student service, campus law enforcement, and alumni offerings that contribute to social justice, racial equity, and peaceful conflict resolution. And we have directed them also to root out areas where we have fallen short of our intentions, through either conscious or unconscious bias.

Where we have services and expertise to offer a hurting, grieving community, we will step up – to the Mason community, to northern Virginia, to the national capital region, and beyond. We simply will not allow this moment to divert Mason from the long-standing pursuit of access to excellence, which is our ultimate tool to fight the perpetuation of racism.

And where we learn we have failed the diverse community we so proudly serve, we will direct necessary resources to fill the void. The COVID-19 pandemic has put us under unprecedented financial duress, but nothing is more strategically or morally vital to our future than truly living up to our mission to be an "inclusive academic community committed to creating a more just, free, and prosperous world."

In the weeks and months ahead, we will have more to say about what we have to offer to advance social justice and healing, and about what changes we will make to improve how Mason will better serve the community and the nation as a whole. We invite you to stay tuned and be prepared to act with us.

Our nation is fighting two pandemics – the COVID-19 virus, and the pandemic of racism in America. George Mason University will address both with the same vigor and sense of urgency.
Like everyone in our community, I write to you today feeling sad and angry about the brutal killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor, along with the racist incident in Central Park. 

I cannot begin to fathom the hurt GW’s Black students, faculty and staff may be feeling. My heart goes out to all who are suffering and may not feel safe. 

Please know that we continue to offer support and resources and are planning some online community events that are referenced in this message from Vice Provost Caroline Laguerre-Brown and the Office of Diversity, Equity and Community Engagement.

While I wish we had the opportunity to host these conversations and support one another on campus, I know that we remain a strong community, and we will find ways to connect until our planned return to campus this fall. I look forward to working together—harnessing the power of the community that comprises this great institution—to address racism and injustice on our campus and in our society.
Like many of you, I have struggled to process the senseless, heartbreaking killing of George Floyd by a police officer in Minneapolis. It is hard not to see a pattern of violence against black people when this tragic death comes on the heels of Ahmaud Arbery’s shooting right here in Georgia, Breonna Taylor’s in Kentucky, and so many others before them across our country. I acknowledge the pain many members of our community are feeling, and I stand in solidarity with our African American brothers and sisters and all people of goodwill, as we find a path forward.

There is much soul-searching we need to do as a society. We all share in the responsibility to deliver on our foundational belief that all people are created equal and are endowed with the same fundamental rights. While we demand change from those with the power to enact it, we must also ask what each of us can do to make good on that promise. And that includes all of us at Georgia Tech.

For the past few months, we have worked together on a new vision of inclusion, public service, and impact. That vision requires that we open the doors of opportunity to more people of underrepresented backgrounds. That we reduce barriers of access that still persist and that have nothing to do with talent. That we reject the status quo and do better. That we listen to and work with our students to create a more inclusive environment where people of all backgrounds can learn and grow. That we educate students who can think critically about the society we live in and can lead us to a better place.

As scholars and researchers, we need to ask ourselves how the science and technology we advance and the theories and solutions we propose help all of us live better lives. As alumni and leaders in business and society, we need to hold ourselves to a higher standard of equal opportunity, inclusivity, and impact.

Last September, we had the privilege to meet, listen to, and honor the first four African American students in the Institute’s history. That day helped me better appreciate our long struggle to become more just and inclusive — and how, by being more just and inclusive, we have become much stronger. Today, we must reflect on how much further we have to go.

I encourage all of us at Georgia Tech to be true to our motto of Progress and Service, to deliver on our mission to develop leaders who advance technology and improve the human condition. Those aren’t just words on a page. We have a responsibility to our campus community, to our local community, and to our nation to help change our world for the better. We have a responsibility to empower and include more people, backgrounds, and perspectives in the process.
The senseless killings of Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd have brought forward understandable pain and anger about racism and violence against black Americans. There is no place for racism and violence in our society or at Georgia State.

As a society and a nation, we must be better. The racism and violence that plague our society must stop, and the healing must begin.

Atlanta‘s many decades of peaceful protest and advocacy for social justice have resulted in real and positive change in our society. Georgia State is an example of that change. Racial exclusion was replaced with inclusion, and racism was replaced with black students excelling as academic and community leaders. We’re on the right track, and through continued hard work and sustained commitment we will together help bring an end to the pain and injustice that ail our society.

Now, I ask each and every member of the Georgia State community to stand in solidarity in rejecting racism and violence and to commit to building a better future where opportunity is real and just.


The current state of affairs in our nation today saddens and
enrages me.  Equal justice under the law
is a cornerstone of liberty, but this was not the case with Mr. George
Floyd.  He was murdered by a white
Minneapolis policeman who put his knee on Mr. Floyd's neck until he died.  The policeman in question and those who stood around and watched this crime being committed have now been arrested, but
should have been arrested immediately. 
It is my hope that they will all be prosecuted to the fullest extent of
the law. 
As president of Hampton University and one who witnessed and
participated in the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950's and 1960's, I am
pleased to see those who have initiated peaceful protests expressing their
concerns about police brutality, particularly towards African Americans.  During the late 1950's and 1960's, I participated
in marches and other peaceful protests that were led by Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr.  I was also the vice-president of a statewide student Civil Rights organization. 
My father was a building contractor and Civil Rights
leader.  Therefore, our household was one of those homes that was a meeting place for the local organizations.  It also served as a rest stop for out of town
travelers who could not use public accommodations because of the racism of the
time.  For those travelers, most of these
visits occurred on the weekends and might include a meal, a glass of tea or
lemonade, a nap on the living room sofa, or an overnight stay.  Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. visited several
times although I do not recall him spending the night.  His brother Rev. A. D. King was a frequent
visitor and overnight guest.  Their
visits always included interesting conversations.  I shall forever be indebted to my father for
allowing me to sit in on some of those meetings.  He gave me permission to be present with the
proviso that I could not ask a question, venture an opinion, or otherwise
speak.  As he would say, "You are to
listen and learn."
In these meetings, there were conversations about successes,
failures, problems, promises, and plans for progress in the Civil Rights
Movement.  Some of the attendees urged
the abandonment of peaceful demonstrations and encouraged violent responses
that matched the batons, bullets, hoses, and dogs used by police against
us.  Dr. King spoke out strongly against
the use of these tactics.  He felt that
it would hurt our cause, and he was proven right.  In that same vein, I think that our cause is
hurt today when we focus more on retaliation and less on seeking police reform
and justice.
While peaceful protestors rally to make their voices heard,
the violence, looting, and destruction of property are not the solution. These
acts hinder the cause of justice that so many are seeking.  Peaceful demonstration is a part of African
American history, but engaging in the above-mentioned acts hurts our cause. To
be sure, there will be criticism for those of us who believe in peaceful
protest to achieve desired goals and objectives.

 

I do not have all of the answers, but three specific
thoughts come to mind.   First, now is
the time for us to again come together in our homes and churches to have
conversations about how we can move forward as a people and as a nation to end
police brutality against African Americans. Secondly, every municipality in the
country should establish a colloquium board to facilitate dialogue between
representatives of the police and the African American community to include
ministers, educators, organizational leaders, and other citizens of
good-will.  Thirdly, every state and
local police academy as well as other providers of law enforcement officers
should establish a mandatory class on policing in the African American
community.

 

While I cannot claim to know all of the answers to these
problems nor the timeline for resolution, I do know that nothing can be
accomplished unless we work together for the betterment of ourselves, our
communities, and our nation. Until this happens, justice will not served.  All of us must understand the immorality of
racism as we support the victims of racial discrimination.





The last several months have been disorienting for all of us. COVID-19 has profoundly disrupted the lives of people worldwide. It has caused more than 365,000 deaths around the globe and more than 100,000 in the United States alone. Forty million Americans have lost their jobs, and countless others live in fear of both the virus and its economic consequences.

In the midst of this incomprehensible loss, our nation has once again been shocked by the senseless killing of yet another black person—George Floyd—at the hands of those charged with protecting us. Cities are erupting. Our nation is deeply divided. Leaders who should be bringing us together seem incapable of doing so.

I cannot help but think back to 1968, the spring of my junior year in high school. First, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, then Bobby Kennedy. Riots broke out in nearby Detroit, as they did across the country. Then, like now, our nation was hugely polarized, and we desperately struggled to find common ground that might unite us. 

At the time, hope was in short supply. It seemed difficult to imagine how we would move forward, but we did. As I think about the challenges that we face today, I return again and again to what I believe:

I believe in the goodness of the people of this country—and in their resilience.

I believe that all of us, liberal and conservative, Democrat and Republican, whatever our race or ethnicity, want a better life for our children.

I believe that America should be a beacon of light to the rest of the world.

I believe that our strength as a nation is due in no small measure to our tradition of welcoming those who come to our shores in search of freedom and opportunity, individuals who repay us multiple times over through their hard work, creativity, and devotion to their new home. 

I believe in the American Dream.

I believe in the Constitution, the separation of powers, the First Amendment—especially the right to a free and independent press that holds those in power accountable, and to a free and independent judiciary.

I believe in the 14th Amendment’s guarantee of equal protection of the laws—for everyone, not just for those who look like me.

I believe that no person is above the law regardless of the office they hold or the uniform they wear. Those who break the law must be held accountable.

I believe that one measure of the justness of a society is how it treats its most vulnerable members.

I believe we must provide opportunity to those who may not encounter it on their own so that they may achieve their full potential.

I believe in the power of knowledge and ideas to change the world, of science and medicine to defeat disease, of the arts and humanities to illuminate the human condition.

This is just some of what I believe. I hope you will pause during these troubled times to ask what you believe. Even more importantly, I hope you will find the strength and determination to act on your beliefs—to repair and perfect this imperfect world. Those of us privileged to work or study at a place like this bear special responsibilities. As Luke teaches us, from those to whom much is given, much is expected.


Recent months have cast a long shadow as the pandemic continues its deadly toll on the nation ravaging Black, Brown and Native American communities in particular.   And in the midst of such anguish, the images of Black Americans treated without humanity and – in some cases – brutalized in the last moments of their earthly lives' triggers waves of emotion including staggering grief and righteous anger.   

This constant attack on the Black experience must end.

I am the proud father of two precocious teenagers.  Like many parents we have very purposely had "The Talk"– the unwelcome but necessary conversation about how to prepare for engagement with law enforcement. Watching these modern-day examples of social injustice and unrest in the presence of my 15-year-old son has brought up some difficult conversations. He reminded me of a time when we were heading to campus and were pulled over. I personally don't recall all the details of that stop. However, my son vividly remembers the anger he felt as a result of the interaction. Upon seeing the news out of Minneapolis, he turned to me and asked, "Dad, should I just fall to the ground if a cop approaches me?"Praying for the right words to say, I told him that he should remain calm and try to express himself to the best of his ability. Yet, even after struggling through that conversation, the myriad names of innocent Black lives taken through lethal force  – young and old, men and women –  testify to the insufficiency of that advice. 

This moment of compounding crises leaves little doubt that the daily experience of so many in our community remain marked by heightened vulnerability and a likelihood to encounter deadly force at the hands of misguided individuals or those whose bigoted views betray the oaths they swore to protect and serve.  

Howard University emerged from the ashes of the American Civil War, a conflict that raised but hardly resolved the racial divide in this nation.  Firmly rooted in a promise that offered the transformative power of education to all, Howard has consistently taught that the highest use of knowledge gained at the Mecca is demonstrated in service above self; focused on addressing systematic injustices and entrenched interests antagonistic to our enjoyment of life and liberty.  Our scholars have enlightened, our physicians have healed, our lawyers have advocated, our activists have agitated, our entrepreneurs have built, our counselors have comforted, and our artists have enriched even life itself.

Our nation would be a shadow of itself and remain as imperfect as it was at its inception without the contributions of Howard University and all it stands for. 

In the context of current events there must always be accountability for all found responsible through a fair and thorough investigation so that justice is served. Yet even as we see individual perpetrators on our screens, we must remain mindful that the distorted worldviews and ugly biases have too often been codified into inequitable or predatory systems are equally culpable.  The book of Ephesians reminds us "For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places."

We were born for such a time as this. And I am convinced that institutions like Howard University are destined to continue to build, mold and train the leaders who will help bring needed change to the structures of our society.

No pandemic, no declining economy, no period of prosperity, and no cure for every medical ailment will undo or hide the realities of the Black experience. We must bring consistency to that struggle and focus our intellect and passion daily to prepare for the hard work that must be done to confront evil and systematic oppression. 

As students: remain vigilant about your studies. You are matriculating through Howard University for a purpose that is greater than yourselves. You are the hope of our ancestors and despite the new challenges that will come our way, each day that you remain resolved to focus on your destiny is a day that brings us closer to resolution to many of our world's dilemmas.

As faculty: continue to focus our energies and concern on our students so that they would be nurtured, thrive and excel. We all are intricately woven into the fabric of the Howard University legacy.  Keep researching, writing, and speaking out to craft solutions to the contemporary challenges we face.  We must be diligent in our work and conversations with students to hear and walk with them through these trying times. 

Let's not forget that we are all living these experiences in our daily lives outside of Howard. It is everywhere that we are. Let's first start by not looking past each other wherever we may be and work on actively loving each other. 

In this moment it is necessary to grieve over another life taken unnecessarily and those who loved him who are now broken and left behind to mourn.  It's okay to be angry. It's okay to be sad. It's okay to feel numb. Stay there as long as you need to. I encourage you to take those feelings and channel them into something durable. Write about it. Sing about it. Participate in the electoral process and vote about it. 

We must remember the names of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Atatiana Jefferson, Breonna Taylor and the countless other lives gone too soon.  

We can honor their memories through a life of purpose in confronting and correcting those skewed systems until they respect the humanity and inherent dignity in each of us.

You have noticed that we haven’t posted much lately. As Black Women, we are taking time away from social media for self-care and processing these events individually.
We hope that you are too doing what you can to protect your peace.
{Self-care resources in Bio}

The IEEE Computer Society is, and remains, strongly committed to equity, diversity, and inclusion and we see no place for hatred and discrimination in our communities. Equity, diversity, and inclusion are central to the goals of the Computer Society and all of our activities. We are proactively supporting diversity and inclusion with the creation of a new taskforce this year that will address ways the Computer Society can improve its mission to better serve those most under-represented in our community. However, we know there is more we can do to support these ideals of equity, diversity, and inclusion.

We are ready to listen. Please send your suggestions to inclusion@computer.org and your comments will be shared with Computer Society leadership and the Computer Society Diversity & Inclusion Task Force.



History teaches us that silence is acceptance. This isn't the time to be quiet. At #icsme2020, we strive to build a safe, diverse and inclusive environment. We support and uplift the Black voices in our community. Today—and always—we stand in solidarity with the Black community.

As the events following the tragic death of George Floyd in Minneapolis have created unrest in our city, state, and nation, I want to reaffirm our unwavering support of our students, faculty, staff, alumni, and Bronzeville neighbors of African descent. Simply put, the university unequivocally condemns discrimination and violence against all African Americans within our community and across the country. 

The pain and outrage that many of us feel at this time is palpable. I reaffirm this university's ongoing and strong commitment against racism of all kinds. Our university is dedicated to peacefully working with our community to reject fear, violence, and injustice and to contribute to positive change in Chicago and in our nation. 

Our university was founded to bridge inequity in education and opportunity—and that informs every aspect of who we are as a university. As outlined in our Statement on Community, Inclusion, and Diversity, "We embrace the contributions that differences offer."

Please stay safe during this difficult time.
****video message***
Like many of you, I have followed the events in Minneapolis and the demonstrations in cities around the nation in response to the tragic death of George Floyd with a mixture of deep sadness, frustration, anger and disappointment. My heart goes out to all those feeling pain and anguish over this senseless death and to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives in the protests of recent days or who have suffered loss and damage in other ways. It is truly difficult to comprehend this tragedy and to find the right words to console the many people, especially members of the African-American community, who are hurting right now and hoping that justice will ultimately be served.  

To echo IU Vice President James Wimbush, who eloquently expressed his sadness and great concern earlier today on the reaction, in his home city of Indianapolis, to George Floyd’s death, the list is far too long of those black and brown individuals who have been subjected to disturbing violence in recent years. This list underscores the racism, bigotry, intolerance and hatred that too many members of our society, especially people of color, are forced to confront on a daily basis. It also draws our attention to the deeply disturbing growth in recent years here and around the world in the number of hate groups, as well as the immensely concerning increase in the number of acts of hatred and violence against minorities.

Here at IU, students of color now make up more than a quarter of the university’s total enrollment. Hence what is happening in Minneapolis and other cities around the nation serves as a powerful reminder that we have a special obligation to work to ensure that our campus communities are places where differences of all kinds, whether of race, ethnicity or belief, are respected, valued and protected, and where hatred, bigotry and intolerance will be powerfully condemned.

We are all members of an educational community, and as such, we must always, as part of the very core of what we do, face the challenges inherent in understanding and evaluating the ideas, assertions and arguments that come from other perspectives, other traditions, other disciplines and other beliefs, as we pursue our fundamental mission of searching for knowledge and truth. At the same time, we cannot afford to ignore the lessons drawn from the serious and informed study of present-day racism and intolerance and their deep connections with centuries-old traditions of suspicion and hatred. Much important scholarship is taking place at IU in these areas, and that scholarship has never been more important.

We must continue to insist that there is absolutely no room at IU for discrimination or harassment based on anyone’s actual or perceived race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin or political beliefs. We see our diversity as one of our cardinal virtues. We are extremely proud of our students of color and their achievements – students who are such a vital part of the cultural and historical fabric of our institution, but we will have failed them if we cannot provide to them campus environments where they feel safe, supported and respected. 

In the days and months ahead, we must strongly reaffirm Indiana University’s fundamental commitment to diversity and equity. We must condemn those who seek to divide us based on race, ethnicity, national origin and other areas. We must join together as a strong and vigorous educational community to be inclusive, supportive and welcoming to all. And we must always stand up for what is good and right.

#BlackLivesMatter is not just a cardboard sign. White educators and PD providers: you have a role in ending systemic oppression. Have conversations about race in your classroom. Embed Black history in culturally sensitive curricula. Work to abolish the school-to-prison pipeline --see the effects of policing on yr own students. Support students as they work thru racial trauma. Really ask yourself what "equity" means in your work. No matter whether you can do it in the streets, you can in the classroom. https://twitter.com/trussleaders…/status/1267333391604527104
Like many of you, I have followed the events in Minneapolis and the demonstrations in cities around the nation in response to the tragic death of George Floyd with a mixture of deep sadness, frustration, anger and disappointment. My heart goes out to all those feeling pain and anguish over this senseless death and to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives in the protests of recent days or who have suffered loss and damage in other ways. It is truly difficult to comprehend this tragedy and to find the right words to console the many people, especially members of the African-American community, who are hurting right now and hoping that justice will ultimately be served.  

To echo IU Vice President James Wimbush, who eloquently expressed his sadness and great concern earlier today on the reaction, in his home city of Indianapolis, to George Floyd’s death, the list is far too long of those black and brown individuals who have been subjected to disturbing violence in recent years. This list underscores the racism, bigotry, intolerance and hatred that too many members of our society, especially people of color, are forced to confront on a daily basis. It also draws our attention to the deeply disturbing growth in recent years here and around the world in the number of hate groups, as well as the immensely concerning increase in the number of acts of hatred and violence against minorities.

Here at IU, students of color now make up more than a quarter of the university’s total enrollment. Hence what is happening in Minneapolis and other cities around the nation serves as a powerful reminder that we have a special obligation to work to ensure that our campus communities are places where differences of all kinds, whether of race, ethnicity or belief, are respected, valued and protected, and where hatred, bigotry and intolerance will be powerfully condemned.

We are all members of an educational community, and as such, we must always, as part of the very core of what we do, face the challenges inherent in understanding and evaluating the ideas, assertions and arguments that come from other perspectives, other traditions, other disciplines and other beliefs, as we pursue our fundamental mission of searching for knowledge and truth. At the same time, we cannot afford to ignore the lessons drawn from the serious and informed study of present-day racism and intolerance and their deep connections with centuries-old traditions of suspicion and hatred. Much important scholarship is taking place at IU in these areas, and that scholarship has never been more important.

We must continue to insist that there is absolutely no room at IU for discrimination or harassment based on anyone’s actual or perceived race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin or political beliefs. We see our diversity as one of our cardinal virtues. We are extremely proud of our students of color and their achievements – students who are such a vital part of the cultural and historical fabric of our institution, but we will have failed them if we cannot provide to them campus environments where they feel safe, supported and respected. 

In the days and months ahead, we must strongly reaffirm Indiana University’s fundamental commitment to diversity and equity. We must condemn those who seek to divide us based on race, ethnicity, national origin and other areas. We must join together as a strong and vigorous educational community to be inclusive, supportive and welcoming to all. And we must always stand up for what is good and right.



Johns Hopkins University and Medicine shared a message Sunday in solidarity against racism. The message responds to the rise of anti-Asian discrimination during the coronavirus pandemic and the deaths of African Americans that have sparked recent protests in cities across the U.S., including in Baltimore.

Johns Hopkins released the following statement:

Dear Members of the Johns Hopkins Community,

In the past three months, across the U.S. and around the globe, we have experienced extraordinary challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In communities of which Johns Hopkins is a part—from Baltimore City, Washington, D.C., Prince George's, Howard, and Montgomery Counties to St. Petersburg, Florida, and many more—we have witnessed our African American, Latinx, Native American, and poverty-stricken communities disproportionately dying from COVID-19, while our Asian and Asian American communities have been targeted with vitriol because of the disease's origins. People have lost family members, and the economic impact of this pandemic has led to many people having lost their jobs.

This has been a tremendous burden for many to bear. The recent death of George Floyd in Minneapolis as well as the deaths of Breonna Taylor, a first responder in Louisville, Kentucky, shot in her own bed while sleeping; Ahmaud Arbery, shot while jogging near Brunswick, Georgia; and far too many others reinforce the brutal truth that the African American community still remains vulnerable to senseless violence, even during a pandemic. For those of us in Baltimore, these tragedies also call to mind the death of Freddie Gray while in police custody five years ago. And this moment serves as a reminder of the compounding effects on our communities.

Because we are all intricately connected by our common humanity, if one segment of our community is hurting, it adversely impacts all of us. This is not just an issue for African Americans; it is an issue that threatens the future for all Americans.

We hear the needs of the Johns Hopkins community to have an honest dialogue about these issues and develop steps to address them through our daily activities and relationships, scholarship and teaching, and health care delivery and leadership. We must acknowledge that these vulnerabilities to violence and health crises faced by black and brown communities are born out of continued racial disparities in education, employment, housing, and criminal justice. To that end, under the leadership of the JHM Office of Diversity and Inclusion and in collaboration with other groups across Johns Hopkins, we will host a Journeys in Healing symposium series, "The Language of the Unheard: A Virtual Town Hall on Racial Injustice," in early June. More details will follow once dates have been solidified.

We also recognize and acknowledge the anguish that these recent incidents are causing for our faculty, students, staff, trainees, and alumni across the Johns Hopkins family. We encourage you to access the many supportive services available. At JHM, these services include mySupport, Spiritual Care and Chaplaincy, the Office of Well-Being, the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, and the JHM Office of Diversity and Inclusion. University affiliates can reach out to mySupport, find student wellness resources at wellness.jhu.edu or on the Student Outreach and Support site, or contact the Office of Institutional Equity for assistance.

During this time of immense challenge, let us work together to be a light to facilitate education, healing, connection, support, and service to each other and to our community.


Open Letter to the Students of Johnson C. Smith University

The World Needs YOU Now More Than Ever 
In the midst of a pandemic that has affected nearly every continent on earth, that has exposed and laid bare the inequalities borne most heavily by the poor and underserved of our community; we now find this country in the midst of facing once again the harsh reality of the legacy of racism, the seeds of which were planted over 400 years ago on this continent. In the last several weeks we have witnessed Ahmaud Arbery's senseless killing while jogging in Georgia; black delivery men in an Oklahoma gated community being held against their will for failing to answer the questions of two white men who questioned the delivery men's right to have entered their enclave; a white female New York City investment banker call the police on a black man who merely asked that she follow the law and leash her dog while in Central Park; and most recently, the shocking death of George Floyd as a white police officer kneeled on his neck for over 8 minutes, literally two minutes after he had already gasped his last breath.

The cumulative effect of these events and similar events, which occurred in years past, has led to understandable frustrations that ask the question: When will this end? The insidious nature of racism suggests that it may not be soon, but it is my hope that you and your peers at institutions of higher education throughout this country, especially those attending HBCUs, will lead this country to a new understanding of its obligations to ensure that the inequality gap does not continue to expand and that we make certain all members of society have the opportunities to reach their full potential.

Two weeks ago, 70 HBCUs, including Johnson C. Smith University, participated in a nationwide commencement celebration. President Barack Obama was among the many people who offered words of wisdom to our graduates.  I am reminded of something he said in making an observation of the state of the world and the significance of the graduates being honored that day. To paraphrase, he said: "We need you now, more than ever!" I wholeheartedly agree with President Obama.  It is critical that your voices are heard; your perspectives are seen; and your experiences are acknowledged in helping to examine, explore and resolve many of the stresses that are threatening to rip the fabric of our society apart.

I know the events of the last few days may have you confused and wondering where is your place in the world.  I would amplify President Obama's call to you: We need you now, more than ever!  And we, the faculty, staff, administration and Trustees of JCSU stand ready, willing and able to prepare you to take on the issues of injustice and inequality facing this country and the world.

Stay safe! We are looking forward to the day when we can reconvene on campus as the unified, resilient and strong community that we are. 

Sincerely,

Clarence D. Armbrister signature

Clarence D. Armbrister, J.D.

President
As we work to reawaken our university community from our COVID-19 isolation, we also must contend with social injustice issues plaguing our country. At the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, around the country, we witnessed acts of prejudice toward those from China and other Asian countries. Now, we are witnessing protests over the killing of black and Latino individuals by law enforcement officers. This is clearly no time to be silent on issues of social justice.

A number of K-State faculty and staff have meaningfully engaged the Kansas higher education community in dialogue on these matters. We believe, unapologetically, that there is nothing to debate. Social injustice is alive and well and more often than not, finds its way to the doorsteps and lives of individuals in the most marginalized communities.

We recognize these acts of injustice may not have taken place on our campuses or in our communities, but they can still have a profound impact on our community members. Our students, faculty, staff and administrators are affected by these acts of injustice. In some cases, members of our community may think this could happen to them, their family members or their friends.

The Kansas State University Police Department is dedicated to our community and strives to earn our confidence and respect. We know this respect is hard-won and can be easily lost — it only takes one incident to erase years of goodwill. Our officers are highly professional and well trained in how to interact with our community members. We have confidence they endeavor to uphold our community values. In this time of strife, they also deserve our continued respect and support. 

At Kansas State University, we affirm the inherent dignity and value of every person and strive to maintain an atmosphere of justice based on respect for each other. We understand the impact these acts of social injustice have on marginalized communities and their allies. We stand with you and we ask our community members to demonstrate the empathy, sympathy and social responsibility that reflects the same accountability we expect of those entrusted to protect and serve.

Those who have been impacted by recent events are encouraged to contact Student Life or Counseling Services by calling 785-532-6927.

Social injustice has always been with us, but we must stand up for what's right and support those who feel threatened or marginalized.
We all have spent much of the last few days watching as the nation mourns the death of George Floyd. We join the nation in mourning. Our collective sorrow remembers Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery, two African Americans also killed this year. Our grief and pain also are tied to the reality that African Americans along with other marginalized communities are disproportionately impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Closer to home, two members of our beloved Golden Flashes community, state Sen. and Kent State Associate Professor of Political Science Vernon Sykes and state Rep. and Kent State alumna Emilia Strong Sykes, received threats related to their duties as elected state officials. Additionally, on May 3, an individual known to authorities for his anti-Semitic views was heard asking a store clerk in Stow the location of Kent State and made comments that could be perceived as threatening to the Jewish community. Fortunately, the individual did not make it to Kent and was arrested on another charge.

In recent statements by both Black United Students and the Undergraduate Student Government, these issues are on the minds of many of our student leaders who are actively working toward a vision of equity and justice that will shape a better future.

It is the hope and aspirations of our students, combined with the history and lessons of May 4, 1970, that remind us of the need to study the root causes of current troubles as we search for a better future. We are called to learn more about the structures, histories, assumptions, prejudices and cultures that lead to disparate outcomes in healthcare, in the judicial system and in myriad aspects of our lives. We are thankful that our Kent State historians, sociologists, public health professors, Peace and Conflict Studies and Pan-African Studies professors, and many, many others are participating in these national conversations. Understanding and improving the world we inhabit are central to what we do at Kent State, as is our commitment to kindness and respect in all that we do.

As we work to reopen our university safely, let us remember that many of our community members live daily with injustices that inflict pain, trauma and a host of other emotions. As Golden Flashes, we ask that you recommit yourselves to the promotion of equity and justice and continue to lift up our institutional values of respect, kindness and purpose. We appreciate each of you and look forward to continuing the work of making our community equitable and inclusive for all.





The recent tragic events in Minneapolis around the death of George Floyd, as well as other incidents of violence inflicted upon African Americans in our country, have shocked the nation and deeply affected all of us.  Our deepest sympathies go out to the family and loved ones of Mr. Floyd and the families and friends of those who have lost their lives to other horrific and senseless acts of racism. These events further demonstrate our need to stand together as a community and take ownership of our obligation to fight against the systemic discrimination and racial disparities that continue to plague our nation.

As members of the Lehigh University community, we must affirm our values—equality, peaceful dialogue, the free exchange of ideas and the encouragement of respectful debate—and support the condemnation and repudiation of systemic discrimination, hate and intolerance and their violent manifestation. We must continue to affirm our shared responsibility to fight ignorance, model inclusive excellence and embrace the power of diversity.

It is our shared responsibility to work together to create a society in which discrimination and racism are no longer tolerated.  We must play an active role in understanding, candidly engaging in dialogue, and solving the problems of racial inequity and injustice.

While I would not presume to speak about the experience of African Americans, I know African Americans in the Lehigh community are feeling anger, outrage and fear in the wake of the violence we have witnessed. I once again ask that we as a Lehigh community recommit to our shared values; reject hatred, bigotry and intolerance; and reflect on what each of us can do, large or small, and how we can come together with hope and determination to create a more just, actively inclusive and equitable community.




I recall, back in early January, thinking about the powerful imagery of the year 2020 and imagining a world where we would have a better and more acute vision of our collective humanity. 

Now, nearly midway through this year, the quest appears even more pressing. Collectively, we are facing the challenge of a lifetime. In the midst of a pandemic, we watch as people across North America mobilize against injustice and racism, provoked in particular by the tragic death of George Floyd one week ago.

Feelings of sadness, anger, fear, and a sense of helplessness are shared by all of us. I recognize that many members of our community, especially our Black students, faculty, and staff, may need support at this time; resources are listed below. 

Yet, in this turbulent moment, it remains critical to remember that our strength lies in our unity and in living the principles that McGill embraces in its mission. Among those principles are equity and inclusiveness. Living these principles means going beyond publicly denouncing racism and other forms of social injustice. We are also called to consider how universities have the responsibility, to confront and work to flatten social inequities through dialogue and the advancement of knowledge. Every one of us shares in this responsibility as we live through a moment in history that calls for leadership and action anchored to knowledge, compassion, and courage.

We are living during a time of profound hurt, anger, frustration and, for many, a time of deep disappointment and despair regarding the recent high-profile violent events targeting Black Americans – the most recent being the inescapable images of George Floyd, dying while a police officer knelt on his neck.   

The shocking events in Minnesota, as well as too many other similar killings in communities including Ahmaud Arbery, killed while jogging, and Breonna Taylor, who was shot to death by police raiding her home, bring much pain, anger and trauma to many members of our community, and we cannot let them go unnoticed or unacknowledged. They are incomprehensible. Unjust. Inhumane.  

First and foremost, as leaders of this university, it is important that we speak out against these atrocities. To our Black students, faculty and staff, know that we both stand with you. The university stands with you.

It is important, as Spartans, that we collectively understand and acknowledge the impact of racism and that the Black community is under attack in many ways right now. In addition to the recent deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and so many others who are targeted because of their skin color, we have a global health pandemic that is powerfully and incontrovertibly revealing the inequities in our society.  

All of this is taking a heavy emotional toll on many of our friends, families and fellow Spartans. These events remind us that we have a responsibility to engage in the work necessary to understand we live in a diverse world and a diverse campus community, and by virtue of this we also have a responsibility to each other to respond to these injustices – acknowledge them, empathize with one another and accept each other.

We are committed to building an inclusive environment here at MSU, one that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. However, this commitment must be manifested in ways that extend well beyond words. We hope you will do what you can as students, faculty and staff at MSU to fight racism, disrupt injustice and actively support each other. The next several months will test our resolve, our community and our nation. 
****tweeted image**



During the past weeks and months, disturbing, racially charged situations and tragic deaths have occurred across the U.S. – including Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, Christian Cooper and most recently George Floyd. We are now witnessing protests in cities across the U.S., some of which have been marked by violence.

On our own campus we also recently experienced the impact of racially charged posts on social media made by incoming freshmen.

One student posted a disturbing video to My Story on Snapchat. A person in the My Story group re-posted it on Twitter. Perhaps the intent of the video can be debated. Its impact cannot.

Another student used an offensive racial slur while engaging in a social media exchange with a black student from her high school.

Many of you have reached out to share the hurt, anger and disbelief you experienced upon watching the video. It demonstrates a disturbing lack of empathy and respect for the death of Mr. Floyd, his family and others who have suffered similarly while in police custody.

Many others have expressed anger and disbelief at the nature and tone of the hurtful social media posts.

After seeing these social media posts and viewing the video, I, too, was horrified. My first impulse was to rescind the offer of admission to these students. But then I was reminded of a couple of things.

Missouri State University is a public university with a public affairs mission.

As a public university we are legally required to uphold the principles of free speech embodied in the First Amendment to the Constitution. The video – as hurtful, insensitive and offensive as it is – is protected by the First Amendment, as was the language in the social media posts.

I will admit that it was tempting to ignore the First Amendment in this case. Doing so would violate our legal obligations but, more importantly, it would effectively prevent the university from accomplishing its mission.

Missouri State has a responsibility to educate students on the three pillars of our public affairs mission – ethical leadership, community engagement and cultural competence. The video and the social media posts clearly reveal that these students – and, let’s be honest, many of us – are in desperate need of education, training and experiences that will help us develop cultural consciousness as well as cultural competence.

We cannot expect or require that students come to us fully formed, possessing all of the skills and characteristics that exemplify Citizen Scholars. It is our job and our duty to help them develop these traits through education and exposure.

Recognizing the impact of the video and the social media post, these students have chosen to withdraw from the university. We had planned to allow them to join our campus community in the fall, knowing that this decision would be ridiculed, questioned and second-guessed. But it was under the conditions that they participate in additional education and training to assist them in both understanding the impact of their actions and in developing cultural competence.

Social media is rife with opportunities to damage reputations or hurt thousands of people with one statement or one video. It is important that we are all mindful of its impact and if we choose to participate, to think very carefully before we post.

As one might expect, these students have been bombarded with hate, ridicule and even death threats. Both are 18 years old. While they displayed poor judgement, they don’t deserve to have their lives threatened.

As a university, we are acutely aware that many of our incoming students of all backgrounds may have made poor choices when posting on social media when they were teenagers. These are formative years when people change and grow. As a university, we are not going to police everyone’s social media accounts. We legally cannot and, in my opinion, should not bar a student from entry for offensive comments posted as an adolescent. I believe in grace, redemption and the probability that a college education can change people for the better. It did me.

That being said, we will continue to educate our students on the three pillars of our public affairs mission. And given the current environment, we will continue to give special emphasis to the awareness, knowledge and skills required to be culturally competent in a global society and world.

Thank you for all you do for Missouri State.
We have no tolerance for discrimination or acts of hate in our community. No matter where you come from, no matter your race, gender, identity, preference or perspective, we all come together to learn, and everyone deserves to be treated with respect and to thrive.
At MIT, Commencement is the most beautiful day of the year. Even in this strange pandemic moment, this afternoon’s graduation celebration will offer us all the opportunity to celebrate the wonderful spirit, character and accomplishments of our newest graduates.

That joy is and should be perfect and untouchable.

But I write with a heart that is also full of anguish – because it is impossible to face this particular day without an overwhelming sense of concern for our nation.

The death of George Floyd and the events unfolding in Minneapolis are deeply disturbing in themselves. And of course, they come on the heels of highly charged incidents, from Georgia to New York, that highlight yet again the tragic persistence of racism and systemic injustice in the United States.

I know that the pain of these events is especially intense for certain members of our community, beginning with those who are African American and of African descent, though certainly not ending there. And I know that, in this time of tension around the pandemic and rising strains in US-China relations, others in our community are also suffering distinctive forms of harassment and discrimination.

I imagine that you may share my urgent desire to help, while feeling an awful powerlessness to do so. At this moment, let’s do what we can. I believe a place to begin is by cherishing and seeking to strengthen our dear MIT community. Imperfect, certainly. But a community with an essential commitment to facing hard facts, thoughtfully striving to correct our errors – and working together to address humanity’s greatest challenges. A community where we aspire always to treat one another with sympathy, humility, decency, respect and kindness.

Let us treasure and care for that community – and let us work to make it better.

In the days and months to come, I would like us to find meaningful ways to come together to work on these challenges, for ourselves and for our society. I have asked John Dozier, our Institute Community and Equity Officer, to guide us in this effort. You may reach him directly at jdozier@mit.edu.

For now: I take hope in turning my thoughts to the new graduates we share with the world this afternoon. Today is our beloved Commencement day, a day when we honor the achievements of our graduating students and charge them with helping to heal the world. That charge will be all the more meaningful now, grounded in the very present struggles for our nation and for the world.

With great love and concern for our community and our nation,
There are events in our days that define our lives as well as our national consequence. We are witnessing one of such moments of definition as individuals and as a nation.

Just starting to emerge from the disorienting experiences provoked by a debilitating pandemic, last week we learned about the tragedy of George Floyd, an African American man who died lying on a street in Minneapolis, while pleading for his life. This past Sunday in Bozeman, community leaders, including MSU students, thoughtfully organized a peaceful demonstration that brought together thousands in support of Black Americans and all people of color, while committing to take on the challenge of dismantling racism, seeking justice and promoting peace. I am proud to see our community members making their voices heard in peaceful, productive ways in an effort towards positive change.

At this historic hour, we stand with our students, faculty and staff of color and with every individual - irrespective of race, ethnicity and gender - who is feeling fear, anger and pain because of these events. You are not alone and we see you.

Our heart also goes out to people who are victimized and caught in the confusion created by others who want to take advantage of this situation to sow discord and destruction. We cannot condone violence in any of its senseless expressions.

We have a responsibility - and the opportunity - to work together to address the injustice and inequality that our founding as a public university sought to eradicate. As the land-grant institution of the state, your Montana State University is committed to maximizing access and success for everyone, to finding lasting solutions, and to build a better world and a more just society.

In these times more than ever, we see the value and urgency of the power of education, diversity and community. In the coming weeks, there will be opportunities for MSU students, faculty, staff and neighbors to participate in conversation and action, as part of our mission to engage with the communities we serve. As one of our institutional documents proudly proclaims, "We believe that excellence at Montana State University is best achieved through a culture of intellectual and personal growth that is diverse and inclusive."

Let us come together as one people to create an environment in which our differences are the source of our strength. 



For as long as I live, I will never forget the horrific video of Mr. George Floyd being woefully asphyxiated by the knee of a morally bankrupt officer of the law. For what seemed like an eternity, we witnessed Mr. Floyd's very breath being extinguished from him. His cries of "mama" and "I can't breathe" fell empty on the ears of the callous and cold-hearted officer. I have not been able to sleep restfully since witnessing this tragedy.

I know our community is hurting, yet again, at the sight of another unarmed young Black man die at the hands of those sworn to protect and serve. I know our blood is boiling and our emotions are high. Believe me, I truly understand! As the father of a young Black man, and as an uncle and a great uncle to scores of other young men, I have great empathy for the families who endure such atrocities of civil and human rights. No family should ever have to experience the loss of a loved one in such a brutal and overtly racist manner.

Even in light of what I've said, I say to all of us, let's stand up for the value of our lives, but if you feel compelled to protest this great injustice, please do so peacefully and with the best interest of your fellow man and woman. We must triple our efforts to rid our society of racism—which, seemingly, in the modern era, has resulted in a practice that Black male lives, in particular, are dispensable.

Go forward and voice your collective stand against injustice with vigor, passion and solidarity in the true Morgan tradition, but as you do, please do so peacefully.

United in equality and humanity,


Research and data clearly show that structural racism and the experience of day-to-day racism result in significant and compounding negative health impacts for people of color. We will highlight these data over the next few weeks and hope you will follow along.
Racism and associated health impacts.



The death of George Floyd has brought us to a point of inflection throughout our country, and it has done so for multiple reasons.

Mr. Floyd's death was captured on video, so we have been forced to see a truth we would rather not believe. That video is both heartbreaking and infuriating. No decent person could watch the extermination of a helpless human being in such a callous manner without experiencing feelings of true anger and despair.

We all have seen this story before, and far too frequently. We have watched as many, particularly men of color, have lost their lives to violence and hate. The circumstances may change, as may the individuals involved, but the result is devastatingly consistent.

Yes, we all have tried to say the right things after these incidents--we have expressed our disgust as well as our grief and sympathy.

Have we DONE the right things, though?

Have we challenged racism and ignorance, even when we see it expressed subtly in "polite company" by those we would consider to be colleagues or friends? Have we honestly questioned and explored our own biases and how they shape our behaviors? Have we worked hard enough to create diversity, and with it greater understanding of and appreciation for one another, throughout our networks and organizations? Have we been guilty of, despite our best intentions, moving on to the next crisis of the day and failing in our commitment to make positive change?

I have struggled to find the right words at this time, and to posit some answers for how we sustain the necessary systemic change. Maybe the questions I posed in the previous paragraph must be examined with unvarnished candor, thereby affecting our individual actions, our willingness to speak out and, as a result, affect those around us while strengthening our efforts to achieve systemic change.

I am extremely proud to be part of a richly diverse university community that is strengthened by its diversity. I believe NJIT serves as an example of what most communities should strive for, but that does not mean we can pretend what we have seen is not our problem. It is our problem, and we have a responsibility that we cannot shirk. Please join me in committing to not let this moment pass without becoming better as individuals and as a community. I welcome your thoughts and suggestions for how to accomplish those goals. My thoughts and prayers are with the family of George Floyd and all those who feel angry, sad, and powerless at this time. We must work hard to resolve the issue of racism thoughtfully, peacefully, and with accountability for those who disregard the value of life of our fellow Americans.

Once again, we find ourselves filled with sorrow, outrage, and grief over a loss of yet another Black person's life at the hands of law enforcement that was tragic, unjust, and avoidable. There have been numerous appalling events over the last few weeks during an already difficult time—a pandemic. While it is hard to find words to describe the shocking ghastliness of the videoed last minutes of George Floyd's life on a Minneapolis street, with a police officer's knee on his neck, the poignant and unheeded pleas of Mr. Floyd and the bystanders—as in previous occurrences—remain haunting. His cries tear at our hearts, just as the knowledge that events like this seem to happen again and again and again rips not only at our conscience but at what we all consider to be a just and humane society.

This is one of those moments when reason and knowledge and discourse, which university citizens prize so highly, often doesn't seem like enough of a response. How could they be, when these deaths keep recurring, and when racism continues to manifest itself, even in our own community?

But reason, discourse, study, evidence, analysis—those are our tools, and events like the killing of George Floyd should not cause us to set them aside, but instead to redouble our exertions to use them in the cause of addressing racism, xenophobia, violence, and hate to underscore social justice, human dignity, inclusion, and peace. Many of our scholars already study the issues so evident in the Floyd video—inequality, race, and the inequities of the criminal justice system. Over the summer, I will be examining—and I am sure this will be true for many of you, too—how else our University might contribute to the goal of creating more just practices and systems. In the meantime, on behalf of the NYU community, I offer our University's sympathies to the family and loved ones of George Floyd, with whom we grieve for his lost life and the unspeakable suffering to which he was subjected, as well all of those impacted by this and the other terrible recent events. To deal with these types of issues while simultaneously navigating a pandemic that is giving rise to differential impacts on communities of color, and in particular, those of African descent, is especially oppressive.

Finally, my heart goes out to those in our own community who have been feeling overwhelmed by grief or apprehension because of fear for their own safety, their families, and loved ones. I want to remind you that NYU stands with you, and we have resources to help: for students at the Wellness Exchange, and for employees through Carebridge. And please also note that the Office of Global Inclusion (OGI) continues to plan events for the community.



As I write this, cities across the country, including here in Greensboro and around North Carolina, are ablaze in unrest and souls in anguish over George Floyd’s death at the hands of Minneapolis police. It was a scene, unfortunately, like many we have seen before, in which the life of an African American man is extinguished in a confrontation that, at minimum, could have been deescalated; at best, avoided entirely. It leaves millions of us around our nation with a reasonable and just question: Why? In the absence of an acceptable answer – and to be clear, there is no acceptable answer – we are left with heavy hearts, sick with grief, inflamed with anger.   

I join the Aggie family in grieving the loss of George Floyd and in voicing a commitment that his death cannot be allowed to pass in vain. As the leader of the nation’s largest historically black university, an institution borne of the bigotry connected by a straight line of history to Floyd’s death, I appreciate the weight of this moment on the shoulders of our students, their families, our faculty and staff and our alumni. As we collectively bear witness to this injustice, we do so from the vantage point of our university, and the tools and knowledge we can bring to bear in this moment of pain and despair. What can our faculty and students do to bring understanding and context to this incident? What measures of change and solution can their scholarly work make clear? What light can they shed on intersecting dynamics of race, the criminal justice system, history, economics and the human psyche that will illuminate truth for a troubled nation? 

In the weeks and months ahead, I pray that the moral imperative of this moment will not fade, and that we will rise to the challenges that our leadership has prepared us to meet. If the aftermath of George Floyd’s death is, indeed, not to be mere protest but a predicate for change in which minds, hearts, policies and practices are forever altered, it will only do so if it is nourished by knowledge and truth. Let us commit ourselves collectively to surfacing those invaluable ingredients of change. 

For now, I encourage all of us to avail ourselves of the community and family ties that bind us at A&T. Lean on one another for comfort, and don’t be afraid to reach out if you are struggling. For our students, additional help is available through Counseling Services at 336-334-7727, Monday through Friday, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. For faculty and staff, the university’s Employee Assistance Program services provider, ComPsych Guidance Resources, is here for you at 866-511-3373, password: NCAT. This service is confidential and free of charge to you as an employee.
I write today as a leader of one of the nation's Historically Black Colleges and Universities. First, I would like to express my deep condolences to the family of Mr. George Floyd who was killed by Minneapolis, Minnesota, police officers on May 25, 2020. On behalf of North Carolina Central University, I join citizens from across our nation and around the world in expressing deep concern about this blatant tragedy and condemning its perpetrators. This incident highlighted how equality and justice are not fairly dispensed in our country. 

We are all incensed by the disturbing images of African Americans whose lives have been taken violently across the nation. As we grieve and try to make sense of these tragic deaths and incidents, we also seek reassurance that justice will be served swiftly and those who are responsible will be held accountable. 

As a community of students, faculty, and staff, we must together call for the restructuring of our judicial system to create one that dispenses justice equally, regardless of racial, ethnic or sexual orientation. As an institution that was founded by a visionary and fearless leader, this university represents the values that Dr. James E. Shepard exhibited with incredible fortitude and strength as he built a progressive learning institution for African Americans in Durham in the early 1900s. Intent on his mission despite the history of oppression that African Americans and other communities of color had faced, Dr. Shepard demonstrated that no obstacle is insurmountable.

The events surrounding us today represent another moment in history when silence and status-quo are no longer acceptable. I ask you to appeal to our local, state and federal leaders to address the ongoing pattern of racial injustice and disparities that exist within our society and embrace public policies that can truly achieve this country's ideals.

I am counting on each of you, as Eagles, to lead us in seeking a more perfect union. As Dr. King said in his historic "I Have a Dream"speech in 1963, we all seek to live in a nation where we will not be judged by the color of our skin, but by the content of our character.  NCCU continues to uphold and nurture an environment of diversity and inclusion that celebrates and respects all voices and opinions.

Students, faculty and staff: In this painful time, I urge you to take advantage of the resources made available in your university community. I encourage students to contact the Counseling Center if you need assistance dealing with this very difficult moment. Faculty and staff may access the Employee Assistance Program to learn about assistance options available. 

Together, let us keep on pursuing a peaceful quest for equality and justice in the days, weeks and months to come. I hope each of you remain secure in knowing the NCCU community is standing by your side. 
he inhumane and unjust circumstances surrounding the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis on Monday have left many in our community, myself included, feeling deep sorrow, frustration and understandable anger. Over the weekend we’ve witnessed this grief and anger displayed in many ways, including a peaceful protest in Raleigh, and unfortunately, separate acts of vandalism against many of our local businesses that have done so much to help build a culture of inclusion in our community.

As a higher education community dedicated to thought and action that improves the world around us, we condemn acts of racism, discrimination and violence.

In the course of the past few months, we have again witnessed more instances of violence against people of color – including Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery – that serve as a continual and painful reminder that unjust racial disparities continue in our country. How could we not be sorrowful, and angry, at this moment? It is past time for drastically needed and rightful change.

We must acknowledge that a person’s race is still too often used to determine how they will be treated in almost every aspect of American life. And as a leading U.S. institution of higher education, we are committed to our critical role in helping right the injustices of racism and discrimination. I believe higher education can and should be a positive influence on lives well beyond academic instruction, and that we need to help lead the way forward toward equality, equity and justice for all in our country.

As the state’s largest public university, we have the responsibility to educate ourselves and those who pass through our doors to overcome ignorance, unite against intolerance, model inclusivity, and advance the dignity and power of diversity.

The events of this week must serve as a catalyst for all in our community to be unequivocally dedicated to building an inclusive environment that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. I remain committed to that goal, and expect you will do all you can in your role at NC State – as a student, faculty or staff member, or friend of the university – to eliminate racism and all other forms of discrimination.

As members of this intellectual community, I strongly encourage all of us to fight for positive change powerfully, thoughtfully and peacefully. I also encourage each of us to embrace with humility that we all have more to learn as it relates to understanding our own places of prejudice and how we can strive to overcome how these impact our own actions.

As Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity Sheri Schwab wrote in her recent Statement Regarding the Events in Minneapolis (if you haven’t yet read it, please do), Provost Arden and I have charged a task force to ensure advancing diversity, inclusion and well-being is inherent and represented in every aspect of NC State’s next 10-year Strategic Plan. We’ll be finalizing the plan over the summer, and encourage our community to provide your feedback via the Strategic Plan Task Force website.

Over the summer, I’ll also be working with Vice Provost Schwab and other university leaders to ensure opportunities for vital community discussions and feedback opportunities related to diversity and inclusion on campus when we return in the fall, in whatever format those need to take in the new COVID-19 environment.

In the meantime, please keep up with important diversity-and-inclusion-related news, events, announcements and opportunities to get involved by subscribing to the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity’s (OIED) Diversity Digest. Also, review the Diversity web portal from the university’s homepage to find education and training resources, diversity and inclusion programs, details about NC State’s Campus Community Centers, an events calendar and more important information.

NC State’s greatest strength is its people – all its people – and their diversity of thought and experience. It is on each and all of us to fight injustice and advance a truly diverse, inclusive and supportive environment for all on our campus and well beyond. That’s what it means to be part of this Wolfpack.
As a result of the events of the past week, we are writing to express support for all of us who may be struggling to understand and react and in particular our students and colleagues of color who may be experiencing pain and anguish.

North Dakota State University has clearly stated values in denouncing discrimination, harassment and retaliation as integral to our success as a student-focused, land-grant, research university.

What that means in difficult times is we support one another any way we can. We listen, we work to understand, we actively work together toward a more inclusive and accepting community for all of us.

More formally, we remind our community of support available through the following sources:

• Confidential resources to support students are available through the NDSU Counseling Center.

• Educational and reporting resources related to equity and inclusion may be found here.

• Confidential resources to support faculty and staff are available through the Employee Assistance Program.

• The University Ombuds is a resource for faculty members, graduate students and academic staff.

We also encourage us all to continue efforts to increase our understanding by reading, asking questions, listening and welcoming one another. 
We have heard the chorus of raised voices demanding that we make real, at last, the promise of American democracy for the many millions of African-Americans who have given so much to build it. We feel, in the words of Dr. King, "The fierce urgency of now."

On Monday, June 8, we will suspend all classes and close all administrative and academic offices on all of our campuses. We will use this time and space—exactly two weeks after the unjust and inhumane killing of George Floyd—to hold a Day for Reflection, Engagement, and Action. We will join together in unity with those all around the world who are grieving and angry over persistent injustice toward African-American citizens.

We will begin with an online vigil at 11 a.m. to remember George Floyd and all African-Americans whose lives have been brutally taken from us. At 2 p.m., we will feature a conversation with Professor of Law Margaret Burnham, founder of Northeastern's Civil Rights and Restorative Justice Project, on ways we can move forward together.

In the days that follow, we will commence a series of virtual town halls on race and justice led by Deans Uta Poiger and James Hackney, co-chairs of the Presidential Council on Diversity and Inclusion.

On June 19, we will gather on all of our campuses for a Day of Solidarity. June 19, often known as "Juneteenth"or Freedom Day, is traditionally a day to celebrate the emancipation of slaves in the U.S. We will gather together to listen, to speak, and to engage one another in advancing the cause of justice.

These events are just the beginning of a series of specific actions that Northeastern will undertake.

It is important to note that we won't always get it right. We won't always find the right words. But we must work together to address the pain. We must find the solidarity that we as a society—and as fellow human beings—so desperately need right now.

There is no time to waste. Working together in mutual trust and understanding to achieve the change that we seek, let us begin.
I felt outrage and disgust watching video of the fatal mistreatment of George Floyd in Minneapolis. 

And I was further sickened this morning when our recent graduate, CNN's Omar Jimenez, was arrested live on television for, as Medill Dean Charles Whitaker described it, "the sin of doing journalism."

Our Northwestern community grieves for the many ways in which our society tolerates and facilitates injustices, demonstrated so vividly in these and other recent events. 

Dean Whitaker poignantly expressed his personal pain as a father of African-American sons. Many of the rest of us can barely begin to imagine the personal toll that racism takes on marginalized communities every single day. But we can all increase our resolve to create a Northwestern community, and a world, where all people are accorded the dignity and the safety they deserve. 

Our nation must do better, and I pledge that I, and our university, will work toward that end.
The recent killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and now George Floyd are heartbreaking tragedies that further show the injustice and systemic racism the Black community faces every day. It's been hard to find the right words for this message because I keep imagining the images and videos capturing these horrific acts and the Black community struggling to be heard when crying out for justice and peace. My heart goes out to the families, friends, and those directly or indirectly impacted.

Blatant acts of racism, hatred, and police brutality should not be normalized again.  Unfortunately, we have been here before.  Many of us remember the recent names… Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice, Eric Garner, Sandra Bland, Atatiana Jefferson, Botham Jean, Philando Castile, and now Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and George Floyd, all victims of a shameful legacy of hate.  We must continue to say the names of those lost to senseless acts of violence and racism.

"I can't breathe"were some of the last words from Mr. Floyd before his life was taken right before our eyes. They were also the last words of Eric Garner in 2014. It is suffocating to exist in a space where Black lives are considered disposable with little hope for real systematic change. I pose this question: "what are we going to do to advocate for equity for our communities and nation?"
 
As a Society within this society, we want to see justice.  We want it in the cases dominating the news but also for the 99.9% of cases most of us will never hear about.  We expect justice to be dispatched swiftly and equitably, according to the law, and not influenced by income, race, or connections.  However, we would also like to see that equality extended to our educational institutions – at every level and to companies and industries solving our countries' most complex problems.  We should not be marginalized; as descendants of those who helped build this nation, we seek full participation in all aspects of society with a fair chance to help make America a more perfect union. 

Of course, we recognize that radical change requires allies; Black people do not have the numbers or resources to bring about systemic change alone.  So, we call on those who believe everyone deserves a chance to fulfill their potential to provide opportunities, to open doorways and create pathways for those who did not have access to the resources that produce advantages.  Finally, we ask those who believe in the mission of the National Society of Black Engineers to invest in this cause so our members can thrive and continue to be agents of positive change.

Now is the time for the conversation.  Now is the time for understanding.  This is the perfect time in history for our country to embrace national ideals for all of its citizens.  We implore righteous people to honor and protect our inalienable rights to liberty, opportunity, and equality. 

We cannot remain silent at a time like this.  We must call for political action to invoke social change, to end police brutality, and dismantle systemic racism.  We are not powerless. Nelson Mandela put it best when he said, "education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world."We encourage all NSBE members and allies to take action and let your voices be heard... mentor, vote, make calls, write, participate, post, march… be the example.

NSBE is compiling a list of health, grief, and wellness support resources to assist our members in coping with all of these troubling events; that information will be provided in another official communication.  Moreover, we are developing a team of leaders to create ways for our organization to use its platform to speak out on social justice issues.  Above all, I ask you to hold on to hope, to seek refuge in faith, and the knowledge that we will get to the other side of this bleak moment.  Together, we will overcome this adversity, as we have in the past, and continue our march toward a more just society. 

Continue to encourage one another, support one another, listen to one another, and love one another. In closing, NSBE loves you, and your life matters!   


We typically share with you a weekend email update on various COVID-19 related issues. We will send the update on Monday this week. 

I ask instead that we use this weekend to reflect on the horrific events of the past week and specifically on what we as individuals, as a community, and as a nation must do to prevent crimes like this from happening again. What can we do to make things different? 

George Floyd suffered a horrendous and completely unnecessary death. His killing, and those that have come before, demand that we create a different future. This can and must be our task. 

This time, we must act. That starts with dialogue, which I have renewed with key community partners. We must reaffirm our commitment as Buckeyes to our university values of inclusion, diversity and tolerance.

Today, let us also act by reflecting on what’s in our hearts and directing our activities to collaborative efforts to produce lasting change. 
Like many of you, we are deeply saddened by the acts of brutality our country has witnessed in recent days. These images and stories are painful reminders of the persistence of racial tension in our country, and they reaffirm the urgent need to stand in solidarity with our community members of color, especially African American community members.

As Directors within OHIO’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion, we understand the limitations of a statement like this at a time when many in our community are hurting so deeply. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to pose extraordinary challenges, made even more challenging by the images of violence we see flashing across our screens.

At the same time, we know that some of you may derive great benefit from campus resources to support your psychological and emotional well-being. For this reason, we encourage all of you to seek out campus resources that can provide support and encouragement to Ohio University community members. Some of them are highlighted below:

Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS)

CPS provides mental health and adjustment services to students and also consultation to faculty, administrators and parents who support our students.

Psychiatry and individual counseling through face-to-face video conferencing or audio phone therapy are just some of the services available to students through CPS.

Staff members in CPS also make referrals to a wide range of support services both on and off campus. Students may contact CPS at any time by calling 740-593-1616. If calling after hours, press 1 to be connected to a counselor. You can also visit their website at www.ohio.edu/student-affairs/counseling.

IMPACT Student Support Meetings

OHIO students are encouraged to email diversity@ohio.edu to express interest in attending an IMPACT meeting, which is a support group convened for any Ohio University student who wishes to discuss special issues that may be impacting our community of students.

These meetings are facilitated by Dr. Kristyn Neckles, psychologist and embedded clinician for our Division of Diversity and Inclusion, on a by-request basis. 

Employee Assistance Program

Ohio University's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and Work/Life program is offered through Impact Behavioral Healthcare Services.

The EAP is available to all Ohio University employees and their family members.

Visit Impact Employee Assistance (opens in a new window)(opens in a new window)and enter 'ohiouniversity' as the username under the heading Member Login to access informational materials and resources.

Program features include confidential 24/7 live professional assistance (1-800-227-6007) and more.

OHIO’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion remains unwavering in our commitment to offering support and safety so all Bobcats in their diverse identities and experiences can find support for their concerns, worries, and fears.

All staff members in our offices — the LGBT Center, the Multicultural Center, the Office of Multicultural Student Access and Retention/OMSAR, and the Women’s Center — stand ready to offer whatever support we can to our OHIO community as we work together to create a world that is safe, equitable, and compassionate for all. We are here for you - please do not hesitate to reach out to us if we can be of assistance.

In times like these, community is the strongest antidote we have to combat isolation and loneliness. You are not alone!
We are disheartened by the racial injustices in our country & hope justice is swiftly served for the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery & victims of senseless violence. To our Black students/employees—we see you, we hear you, we support you. Your voices matter.
I know our Monarch community joins me in expressing our collective outrage regarding the horrific and senseless killing of George Floyd. We send prayers to his family as well as our hopes that his tragic death will create not just a nationwide conversation, but a commitment from every member of American society to say "No more" to what we observed in Minneapolis or, before that, in Georgia. As a diverse and inclusive campus, we must continue to do our collective best to demonstrate for the world that at Old Dominion University we strive to learn from differences, leading to a greater understanding of one another.

 The primary role of police in America is to provide for the safety of all people by protecting them from criminals and to hold each of us accountable to the law. We expect police to apprehend criminals and work within the legal system to make certain that justice is blind and all are held accountable to the law.

We all have watched in horror videos being replayed over the past week showing the life of George Floyd brutally taken from him by a white police officer in Minneapolis, Minn., while three other officers sworn to uphold the law looked on in indifference. The officer who killed Mr. Floyd was arrested and all four of the officers were fired, but the other three officers simply went home.

Sadly, this horrific event is just the latest in a seemingly endless stream of acts of violence against Black and other people of color by police who are sworn to protect and serve them.

Mr. Floyd’s death comes on the heels of the Feb. 23 fatal shooting of Ahmaud Arbery by armed white residents as he was out jogging in a neighborhood in South Georgia. As well, the March 13 death of Breonna Taylor, who was shot in her Louisville, Ky. home by police. And the reporting to police last week of an African American man threatening a white woman when in fact he was in New York City’s Central Park to watch birds and simply asked her to keep her dog on a leash.

We continually hear speeches and testimonials about how unacceptable and terrible these acts are and how our leaders feel the pain of the Black community. Yet, nothing changes much and we act as if these horrific events are singular or isolated events. But these are not one-offs. They are the product of a failed justice system that perpetuates racism in America and too often a culture of silence within police forces that protects incompetent and hateful people simply because they wear the badge. We are condemned to relive these tragedies unless we make real change a priority throughout this country.

America must be a land of personal and equal freedom, safety and opportunity for all people. And to be certain, the police exist to protect us from predators and not to control us. That attitude should be universal in this country regardless of who we are, where we live or what we look like.

But how can we expect America and all people who live here — including communities of color — to thrive in the midst of such violence and injustice? How many times must we write the same messages expressing our outrage and hurt, sharing our thoughts and prayers for those harmed, and pleading for an end to injustice? How many acts of discrimination, injury and death must occur before our country confronts the realities of the lived experiences of people of color in our society? All of this must stop and that requires action not speeches.

Policing is a local function, but our system of policing requires systematic change across the country. On Monday, I will write the National Governors Association and urge the association and other groups to develop rules, training programs and disciplinary codes for appropriate policing to be enforced throughout America and for unions to step up and support the justice system in weeding out bad officers. Most police are good, dedicated, under-paid and hard working men and women, who risk their lives every day for the well-being of all people. They deserve our thanks and respect and they should not be subject to public scorn because we are incapable of holding some police accountable to the laws of our country and communities simply because they wear a badge.  

As a university community, we must join together to ensure that all members of the OSU community — students, faculty, staff and visitors — not only feel welcomed and safe, but experience our community as a place to thrive. Each and every member of our community must know they are valued, that they belong here, and that we celebrate the rich diversity that they bring to Oregon State University. We should not tolerate anything less. 

Our new police chief, Edgar Rodriguez understands that police must be a community partner that provide a sense of safety in the university and broader community.  As we hire officers for our police force, the Office of Institutional Diversity will continue to provide training to OSU public safety officers on implicit bias, foundations of power, privilege and oppression to ensure that our public safety practices are congruent with OSU’s values regarding inclusivity and opposing oppression. University leaders also will to seek to achieve agreements with police agencies in communities where OSU operates so that we may mutually advance inclusive justice for all people. 

The novel coronavirus pandemic has made all of us look at the inequities in our society. We call people essential workers and yet we systematically pay them less than living wages and deny them critical health care and quality education for themselves and their children, and we act surprised that they are disproportionately vulnerable to death from the COVID-19 pandemic because of pre-existing conditions and that they are disproportionately people of color. When do we get disgusted enough with what we have created and say enough? 

We have a policing problem in America, but it is part of a much deeper and broader failure of this society to live up to the promise of America, which continually eludes us.

As I prepare to step down as university president on June 30, I am confident that our university and the OSU community are in the right hands with incoming president King Alexander. He and I talk often and I know he shares my personal values and leadership commitment to inclusivity, safety and opportunity for all. I know that as OSU’s next president, he will be unwavering in helping advance the work of inclusive justice and opportunity for all that must be part of life within OSU — and across America.  Together with Chief Rodriguez, he will help us move in the right direction in our little part of the world.

In closing, I ask that each of us continue to participate in dialogue, leadership and understanding as we seek to alter the direction of society. I know this will not happen overnight, but by God it needs to happen soon. 
 It has been ten days since the world saw the video of George Floyd dying while a white police officer pressed his knee into Floyd's neck. It has been a week since protests began around the country and across New York, convulsing the city. Yesterday, hundreds if not thousands of New Yorkers gathered in Brooklyn, and then marched across the Brooklyn Bridge past One Pace Plaza, in a moving commemoration of Floyd's life. We join in mourning his loss.
 
During this time, we have been listening to the Pace Community and hearing the pain, anguish, and anger. We are reflecting on our commitments, talking with our Student Government Associations and Black Student Unions, and determining how we can move the University forward while doing more to fight for equality and justice. We know we haven't always gotten it right, and we want to do better.
 
We recognize that Floyd's death is not an isolated case. It has been three and a half months since Ahmaud Arbery was shot and killed while out for a jog; nearly three months since Breonna Taylor was shot and killed by police who'd broken into her apartment; ten days since Tony McDade was shot and killed by police investigating a stabbing. It will soon be 10 years since Danroy "DJ"Henry, a Pace student and football star, was shot and killed by a police officer in Pleasantville. We mourn those losses, too. We know there is much to be done. We are remembering and relearning the words of Angela Davis: "It is not enough to be non-racist, we must be anti-racist."
 
At Pace University, we are committed to being unbiased and anti-racist across our institution.
 
We are committed to hearing from all voices and empowering all parts of our community.
 
We are committed to standing up for what is right.
 
In the last academic year, we hired Pace's first chief diversity officer and established the new Division of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. That Division worked to update our hiring practices to mitigate bias and increase diversity, and it centralized key offices to streamline and focus their important work. There is much, much more to be done.
 
Today, we are committing to the following actions:
 

    We will establish a Presidential Task Force, composed of students, staff, faculty, and alumni and funded by the President's Office, to examine the Pace experience for all in our Community, including those who are Black, those who are brown, and those from other historically underrepresented groups. Under the guidance of the chief diversity officer, in partnership with other campus leaders, and guided by the findings of the forthcoming Diversity Climate Survey, the Presidential Task Force will design a plan with short- and long-term strategies for a more equitable and just Pace University. It will welcome input from all parts of the Pace Community. The Presidential Task Force will be formulated in the coming weeks and will issue its recommendations by the end of fall semester.

 

    We recognize that voices need to be heard and action needs to happen everywhere across the University, and we ask departments and divisions to review their areas to develop long-term commitments for systemic change. These recommendations will be developed by October 1, 2020, and forwarded to the Presidential Task Force for inclusion in the University's comprehensive plan.

 

    We will soon launch a reporting site on which members of the Pace Community can register incidents or experiences contradictory to the inclusive environment we seek to sustain. This site will launch during fall semester. Whether reported on this site or elsewhere, University leaders will always investigate and respond to incidents that are brought to our attention.

 

    In the next week, we will organize a community forum, modeled on this week's session for faculty and staff, in which all members of the Pace Community will be invited to share their experiences and their visions for how Pace can make a difference.

 

    We will design a comprehensive series of programming for the fall semester to examine racial justice in our community and our country, including honoring the memory of DJ Henry as we mark 10 years since his murder.

 
We welcome all in the Pace Community who wish to serve on the Presidential Task Force. Its agenda will not be set by the administration; it will be set by the community. The Presidential Task Force will convene in the coming weeks. If you're interested in serving on it, please contact diversity@pace.edu .
 
We had planned a Diversity Climate Survey for last semester, to capture critical voices and experiences to inform the work of the DEI Division. It will be launched when we return to campus. 
 
Fall programming already in development includes the Our Pledge Against Oppression discussion series, featuring panels on working toward anti-racism and examining race and the prison-industrial complex and a symposium on the absence of Black and Latina/o/x intellectual communities in academia; a teach-in series rooted in critical race theory; a social justice reading club; and the annual MLK lecture.
 
We have also compiled a list of resources to answer the question, "What can I do?"It is available at www.pace.edu/takeaction .
 
We know that this is just a start. But we are committing to do the work, and we will use these first steps as a basis for our future plans. We will have more information for you soon on next week's Zoom meeting, and more detail forthcoming on the Presidential Task Force and fall programming.
 
We have always believed that Pace's strength lies in its community. Despite the many and enormous challenges currently facing us, we still believe that. Let's stand up for each other, listen to each other, and work together to build an even better Pace. 



The tragic circumstances surrounding the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis, following other recent unspeakable tragedies, makes clear yet again that systemic discrimination and unjust racial disparities continue to plague our country. It is past time for change.

We cannot remain silent in the face of this heart-breaking reality. As an institution of higher education, we have an obligation to fight ignorance and intolerance, model inclusivity and embrace the power that diversity represents. 

In the face of hatred and bias, we must speak out. We must not accept apathy, indifference or silence, otherwise we allow hatred, prejudice and intolerance to grow. 

Our message today is, foremost, one of profound compassion for all who live in fear that the color of their skin, gender identity, ethnicity or religion makes them a target of hate. Our hearts ache as we can only imagine the trauma, pain and frustration that many are feeling at this time. 

This message also reaffirms Penn State’s commitment to disrupting hate, bias and racism whenever and wherever we encounter it, and to creating the most inclusive and diverse community that we possibly can – one that is free of discrimination; one that embraces differences; and one that respects all individuals. 

We support our community as you express your sadness and anger through peaceful protest, and we know it is even more challenging to support and lift each other up during this global pandemic, with the added difficulty of social distancing. However, please know that our entire University community grieves with you, supports you and joins with you as we strive for positive change. 

Our country has witnessed with horror the untimely deaths of George Floyd and Ahmaud Arbery, black men whose deaths have come even as we struggle to absorb the disproportionate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on minoritized communities. All around us, people of color are dying at a higher rate, making further visible the structural inequities that pervade every area of the American experience. 

As Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz said, "These are things that have been brewing in this country for 400 years."

It is easy to feel overwhelmed by these events and give in to despair. But we must not give up because we know that inaction supports injustice, inequity and racism. 

We must deepen our work to make our community one where justice and equity are central to who we are. We must work towards equity and justice at Portland State, in Portland, in Oregon, in America, and across the world. It will take intentional and collective action to dismantle systemic structures of oppression. 

We stand with communities in Minnesota and Georgia calling for justice, and we affirm our commitment to doing our own work to ensure that justice and equity are a core part of all of PSU.

Today, and always, black lives matter. 






Leebron: We must act to reduce deadly discrimination and racism
SPECIAL TO RICE NEWS – JUNE 1, 2020
POSTED IN: CURRENT NEWS, FEATURED STORIES


Share23
Rice President David Leebron sent the following message to the university community May 30:

President David Leebron
President David Leebron

We draw many things from being a community. We do things collaboratively. We define and share our values. We take collective joy in our successes. We commiserate when there are reasons for sadness. And we come together in times of crisis and danger.

Over the summer, when our students and also to some extent our faculty are dispersed, the immediate sense of community and our ability to rely on it is diminished. This year that is even more so since our education has been completely online since March. And although our students may still be seeing each other in classes on screens, many of the casual interactions that build our connections to each other no longer take place.

There is of course great sadness sweeping across our world and our country because of the pandemic. Many have lost friends and family members. Many more are living in isolation and under constant threat of danger to their health. Tens of millions have lost their jobs, and collectively our country is facing a level of unemployment and financial distress we have not seen in 90 years. And these burdens have fallen unequally on different communities.

And yet, amid all of that, there is now a deep pang of pain sweeping across America that cries out for recognition, that demands that our voices be heard.

Just three weeks ago I wrote on Twitter about the horrific shooting of Ahmaud Arbery, who was killed while jogging in the coastal city of Brunswick, Georgia, in late February. In mid-March, Breonna Taylor, a young emergency medical technician in Louisville, Kentucky, was killed in her apartment when police entered. And last week, George Floyd was killed in Minneapolis when an arresting officer knelt on his throat for over eight minutes.

pull quote

What these recent cases, and others, have in common is that they all involved victims who were black Americans. Black Americans who were treated as a threat when they weren’t. Black Americans who were treated as if they did not belong in a place when they did. Black Americans who were treated as if they were not a vital part of the fabric of this nation when they have fought and died and sacrificed for it as much as any others. Black Americans who were killed when the circumstances provided no justification.

There is anger and pain and fear across America, not because these are new things to deal with, but because they aren’t. Last fall, for example, Atatiana Jefferson, a young Xavier University graduate working in the pharmaceutical industry, was killed by a police officer who entered her home in Fort Worth, Texas, without identifying himself. The names of these victims are seared in our memories.

For the most part, I write to the campus about events only when they directly involve Rice, and usually when our campus is in session. But occasionally, external events, nearby or far away, are such that they reach deeply into our community and especially affect a valued part of the Rice community. And so although we are currently dispersed and these incidents did not directly involve members of the Rice community, we must acknowledge that these events cause pain and fear to a vital part of our community. It is a pain and fear that many of us have trouble even imagining. Even in the middle of a global pandemic, it is a deep and enduring pain and fear that deserves acknowledgment and caring, and recognition that we must do better.

We must therefore join with our own expressions of concern and sympathy and outrage. We must work to build an inclusive environment, one that respects and values people from different backgrounds. We must take part in efforts to reduce the deadly discrimination and racism that is an unstaunched wound in our national fabric.

And so I write today to convey on behalf of the Rice community, to all of our community, and most especially to the black members of our community, that we acknowledge the sorrow and the fear and the pain. And that we know as a university and as individuals we must contribute to healing that wound.











As an organization committed to being a voice for the under-represented, SHPE denounces all racism. We wholeheartedly support equality and enthusiastically stand with everyone who is committed to diversity, respect, and justice
Even as this flashpoint in the struggle for racial justice unfolds primarily in the US, ours is a global community. Some struggles are more visible in certain geographies over others, owing to histories of oppression, but we fully recognize that members of our community worldwide are faced with a long list of systemic injustices. The task that lies before us is one of weaving equity, inclusion, and solidarity into each of our scholarly and professional activities, so that "diversity and inclusion" are not add-ons, but deeply integrated into our every practice, whether it involves conference processes, volunteering responsibilities, or global community support mechanisms.
Within SIGCHI, we care deeply about addressing discrimination of all kinds. We are committed to bringing down barriers to equal participation — in our community and the many worlds in which we work, but we must do better. It is not enough to not be racist; we must be anti-racist. With this in mind the SIGCHI Executive Committee (EC) is committing to taking the following steps to confront racism and other forms of discrimination and structural inequity.
    Listen and Reflect: We will identify avenues for our community members to share their experiences, observations, and suggestions around representation and existing practices, so that we can all listen actively, reflect, and learn. We will work together with those whose ability to participate is impacted, to identify ways of amplifying these voices. We will organize dialogues with our members so we all may strengthen our approaches to identifying and addressing prevalent forms of discrimination, racial and otherwise.
    Act Locally: Relying on lessons learned through active listening, we will communicate practices for our community to engage and adopt in personal and professional arenas, including in SIGCHI conferences, events, and publications.
        Represent: We will conduct a systematic review of formal SIGCHI policies and regular practices to examine how best we can respond to bias and bring down barriers that obstruct equal participation for any number of reasons. Specifically, we will take a deeper look at our conferences, volunteering, and community support offerings, to assess how our community may be better represented.
Based on our active listening, the SIGCHI EC will identify recommendations by the end of September, report these to the SIGCHI community in writing, and discuss them in a (virtual) town hall before the end of 2020. We will then begin the work towards integrating these short- and long-term recommendations into SIGCHI policies and practices. Throughout this process, we will be transparent and accountable across the SIGCHI community as we work to achieve our long-term commitments.
We are grateful for the initiative that many in our community have taken in these difficult times, to raise voices against deep injustice and extend support to others affected. Still, we urge our membership — those who are able — to reflect individually and together on the ways in which systemic racism and other systems of domination manifest to threaten the principles of equity and inclusion we espouse as a community. Whether it is in our research activities, our industry jobs, or our classrooms, how might we take on the responsibility of initiating the hard conversations? And of creating the safe spaces in which these conversations may have impact? Our search for justice inevitably ties us together as humans; now is the moment for each one of us to ask — how can we move forward together, in solidarity, to effect deep, systemic change?


SFU Stands in Solidarity Against Racism: Statement from the President
June 02, 2020
Recent incidents of anti-Black violence and discrimination in Canada and the United States provide a disturbing reminder of the prevalence of racism within our societies, and have caused much pain, anger and distress for Black students, faculty and staff.

Despite our commitments to human rights, universities like SFU are not immune to anti-Black and anti-Asian racism, nor to discrimination directed against Indigenous peoples.

Only a few weeks ago, I condemned the anti-Asian racism seen in our communities and spoke of our shared obligation to oppose racial discrimination in all its forms.

The events of recent days add further urgency to this cause. Racism has no place in our society, and we have a responsibility not only to condemn discriminatory behaviour, but also to take action to support inclusion for all.

At SFU, this starts with acknowledging the role we play in perpetuating systemic discrimination, and accepting that we have work to do to ensure that our ideals for a just society are reflected in our own practices, policies and procedures.

To this end, last year we appointed an executive team led by Dr. Joy Johnson to develop an action plan to advance equity, diversity and inclusion across the university. Supported by a pan-university advisory council, the group’s mandate is to eliminate systemic barriers and inequities in access, admissions, recruitment, career development, pay, working and learning conditions, resources, retention and progression.
While that work, including data gathering, is underway, we have much more to learn and much more to do. SFU leadership is committed to growth and change, and I am grateful to many for the part they are playing in building a university community where all feel included.

For students, faculty and staff who experience grief, trauma and/or stress resulting from racism and violence, support is available:

Equity, Diversity and Inclusion help and support: https://www.sfu.ca/edi/support.html
Students: Health & Counselling Services 778-782-4615 and our free, 24/7 mental health support program, mySSP. More information on these and other mental health supports here.
Faculty and all staff: Employee and Family Assistance Program:  Homewood Health 1-800-663-1142
Interfaith Centre: 778-782-3180
 
I have been heartened, as I have said many times in recent weeks, by the energy and commitment that SFU students, faculty and staff have shown to keep our community safe from the threat of COVID-19. Let us now apply that same energy and commitment to ensuring that our community is safe from the threat of racism and discrimination.

It’s all of our responsibility to combat racism, but none more so than those of us who have benefited from white privilege.







The events of the last several weeks have left us with a profound sense of grief, anger, and weariness, but also resolve. We grieve with the family and friends of George Floyd, who was killed by the police in Minneapolis. We grieve with countless other families, including those of Ahmaud Arbery, João Pedro Mattos Pinto, and Breonna Taylor, whose loved ones died senseless and inexplicable deaths at the hands of police officers around the globe.
We are angry at the police officers, their supervisors, and public leaders who allow these actions to continue.
We have grown weary from these reports, coming on the heels of the COVID scourge which has affected us all but especially the very same groups that have been targeted by police officers.
But we are resolved. To prevent the senseless deaths of African Americans at the hands of police and the systematic racism and oppression of people of color, we must transform our anger and grief and resolve to act. We must act at every level.
As leaders of a scientific organization that cares deeply about children, we lean into the research that consistently documents the long-lasting negative effects that discrimination, oppression, racism, and implicit bias have on children. We must discover ways to support families and communities in raising children to become peaceful and tolerant citizens.
We must hold our leaders accountable. Today, leaders at the highest levels are sowing division and racism instead of bringing healing and unity.
We must raise up the voices of unity, accountability, and healing that our nation needs. We need to elevate the voices of youth. Through evidence-based programs, we need to equip them for civic engagement and leadership that will bring about the changes that society needs. We need to stand behind and support youth in creating a better future.
Importantly, we must hold ourselves accountable. As members of the Society for Research in Child Development, we must ask ourselves what we can do in our teaching, our research, and our academic work to bring about the needed changes in our society.
At times like this, we must examine our own beliefs, values, and goals. At SRCD, integrating racial, cultural, and economic diversity into the spheres of developmental science is a central strategic goal. We will continue to promote research that illuminates the lived experiences of children of color, especially in these times of increased oppression and racism. SRCD can be counted on to act based on evidence.
Finally, SRCD builds capacity, as a strategic goal. We will raise up the next generation of researchers, inform policymakers, and equip practitioners in ways that lead to healing the broken-hearted, building bridges across the partisan divides, and advancing developmental science to improve human lives -- #WokeScientist.
We cannot do this alone. We must do this in community and in collaboration. SRCD Commons has been created to grow our sense of community. There are portals for members to communicate with each other for support and information. SRCD is hosting chats, webinars, and virtual meetings with parents of children to offer counsel and support.
Let us commit. Never again.



At the heart of the STARS Computing Corps is a commitment to equity and inclusion in computing. We condemn racism. We will continue to incorporate anti-racist frameworks to guide our work for institutional change. We stand with #BlackLivesMatter






The amount of pain and suffering we are witnessing and feeling is only a snapshot of a broader social reality. We, and everyone before us, have had a role in arriving at where we are today. As such, it is of paramount importance to step up and take a stance. It is our responsibility and a moral imperative to not stand by and simply witness the events around us. We must collectively find our voice and reject racism and inequality. Silence perpetuates, doubt reinforces, and rationalization of incident after incident only compounds the pain so many in our society continue to endure.

While CRA has a long history of celebrating, promoting, and advocating for inclusivity, we cannot be satisfied with continuing the status quo. We will continue to actively stand against discrimination and hatred. We will find new ways to use our voice in Washington to advocate for policies that address the inequities that exist in our field. We will amplify the efforts of our membership organizations wherever we can to help them improve the spaces they occupy and create an environment that is more welcoming, just, and equitable to all. Only together can we begin to right the long history of wrongs that have led us to this place and time.

We start with acknowledging the issues by talking to those around us and explicitly stating that we stand with them when they stand against discrimination and hatred.

We know that racism:

    Is systemic and institutionalized, was intentionally designed, and established well before the foundation of our nation.
    Continues to oppress people of color around the world – denying basic human rights, denying opportunity, and even more tragically denying many of their very lives.
    Is learned behavior that may be unlearned through education, compassion, empathy, and action.
    Drives a wedge between communities, and in doing so limits the enviable quest for a society steeped in respect.
    The privileged benefit from its existence and must be willing to sacrifice to overcome it.
    Lives in our homes, schools, workplaces, parks, churches, stores, amusement parks, government, law enforcement – it lives in us all to varying degrees.

To stand against it, we:

    Acknowledge the existence of racism within our communities and commit to defeating it.
    Call out and reject rationalization of incidents and distortion of information.
    Educate ourselves and those around us to be better equipped to address racism in its many forms.
    Stand up against the status quo by using our voice and agency.
    Commit to systemic change in laws, policies, procedures, etc.
    Dedicate all necessary resources to create lasting change
The Society of Women Engineers is angered and saddened by the recent events in Minneapolis that led to the death of George Floyd.  As an organization we vehemently denounce racism!  Systemic racism faced by those of color in our communities across the United States has become all too familiar.  We must stand together to demand justice and work together to turn our pain into purpose.  Nothing will change if those outside the impacted communities stand by and do nothing.  We must be true allies, standing shoulder to shoulder, asking the tough questions of our civic leaders.

To support the increased participation of women and minorities in engineering, SWE became a founding member of the 50K Coalition.  Since 2015, together with the American Indian Science and Engineering Society  (AISES), the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), we have been working together, using the collective impact model, to increase the numbers of engineering graduates from underrepresented populations to 50,000 by 2025.  Moreover, we have Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with the above-mentioned groups supporting initiatives like joint membership, research and public policy.  This year we are working on additional agreements with NOGLSTP, oSTEM and SASE.

We also recognize that as an organization we have our own work to do. The lack of visible diversity in our leadership is palpable.  For the past several years, SWE leadership has focused on creating a more welcoming and inclusive environment within the Society.  While our efforts may not always achieve the goals we have set forth, we cannot hope to accomplish those goals if we do not actively focus on them.  And we acknowledge that as an organization we still have a lot of work to do. 

As an organization we are committed to our diversity and inclusion principles:

    Developing women in engineering across socio economic strata and occupational focus
    Encouraging interest in and active participation of women and girls of underrepresented groups including (but not limited to) African-American, Asian, Hispanic, Pacific Islanders and Native Americans
    Supporting women and respecting their differences in family status, sexual orientation, sexual identity, age and physical ability
    Work collaboratively with men to confront gender bias and create a more inclusive engineering community

This year our SWE Senate has convened a sub-team to address the lack of diversity within our leadership pipeline.  And that work will continue in the next fiscal year.  We want to be solutions-driven.  Our KPI metric dashboard tracks the diversity demographics of both our membership and our leadership. Details will be shared on swe.org and in the State of SWE conducted every spring. We are holding ourselves accountable and we expect our members and partners to hold us accountable as well.

SWE is a place for women of all backgrounds to come together and share unique perspectives and advance both themselves and the field of engineering.

To our diverse members and every woman of color in STEM fields, your voice is important. We want to reiterate that we are an inclusive organization and we need you in order to increase representation in all levels of our profession and SWE leadership. 

Message to Our Community
Saturday, May 30, 2020, By News StaffShare
To the Syracuse University Community,

We write to you in the midst of tremendous pain, sorrow, anger and concern. From scenes in Minnesota, Georgia, New York and beyond, we have witnessed horrific images reminding us that the sting of racism and systemic injustice is real.

Each act of discrimination and violence carries with it a significant and sustained impact, especially among those targeted. George Floyd is a visceral and painful reminder of the unique ways many of us—students, faculty, staff and alumni—have experienced discrimination and violence. We are clearly in the midst of troubled times, and while civic and law enforcement authorities bear a particular responsibility, we of Syracuse University are now presented with a collective and crucial opportunity.

We recognize the hate and terror that continues to infect each and every corner of our country and world. To face such truth requires compassion. We also witness the tremendous goodness found within our diverse campus community, and we fully believe in our capacity to create and sustain our common good.

The challenges before us might seem impossible to overcome, and we are all far from perfect. Our response must meet the importance of this moment, to build communities where hate and intolerance are not just condemned and rejected, but eliminated. We are now called upon to embody our values and embrace each other. We must choose—through our words, thoughts and deeds—to emerge as a stronger and more just community.

We grieve for the families who have lost loved ones and for those who are suffering. It is simply not enough to try to imagine what others are going through. We must have the respect and resolve to do something about it. When we engage one another with kindness and compassion, we are working to ensure the dignity and worth of all.

While distanced around the world, we in the Orange Community can bind together and act together, for the sake of our world.

With hope,

Kent Syverud, Chancellor and President
Keith A. Alford, Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer
The Rev. Brian Konkol, Dean of Hendricks Chapel

To the Temple community: 

Recently, we have watched the horrific accounts of the deaths of George Floyd in Minnesota, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. Temple joins those who oppose racial oppression and are actively working toward racial equity. Our university was built on the idea that the world is filled with diamonds and these diamonds can be found anywhere and everywhere regardless of race, ethnicity or socio-economic background. As an educational institution, Temple promotes critical thinking and peaceful and purposeful activism. We join with leaders in the Philadelphia region in condemning violence that harms others and destroys property.

Last week, students, faculty and staff were invited to take part in programming and support services designed to help the Temple community process and constructively respond to this difficult season in our shared history. This programming will continue, led by Temple's Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership (IDEAL). We invite you to join with IDEAL for an "Envisioning Racial Justice" webinar to be held Tuesday, June 2. IDEAL regularly shares recommendations of books, articles and other valuable resources, like How To Be An Antiracist by Ibram X. Kendi. Not only is Dr. Kendi a National Book Award-winning and No. 1 New York Times Bestselling Author, he is a Temple Owl, having received his doctorate in African American Studies in 2010. Follow @templediversity for the most up-to-date recommendations and information about additional events.

If you believe you have been the victim of racial discrimination or harassment, please contact the university's EOC office, the focal point of Temple's institutionwide efforts for equal opportunity, equal access and affirmative action. Tuttleman Counseling Services and the Employee Assistance Program also remain available to support you as we face these challenges.

We have every confidence we will navigate this difficult time together.

Richard M. Englert
President

JoAnne A. Epps
Executive Vice President and Provost
Dear TSU Family, Tennessee State University shares the pain of those mourning the loss of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We also share that same anguish, sadness and outrage for the other black men and women across the country who are victims of police brutality because of the color of their skin. Our hearts ache for them and their loved ones, and also for the city that we call home. Nashville has had to endure the seemingly unimaginable this year. The decimation of deadly tornadoes; the physical, mental and economic impact of a pandemic; and now a peaceful rise against injustice that turned violent. While TSU does not condone the violence that erupted during the recent protests in Nashville and nationally, the university sternly and unequivocally opposes injustice and racism. Our institution has a rich history in the civil rights movement, as well as the modern-day movement. Many of our former students helped integrate Nashville's lunch counters, a historic moment in the city's history. Today, our students, from around the country and here in Nashville, are leaders in their communities fighting for change. We must seize this opportunity to continue the dialogue to demand fair and equitable treatment for all Americans, for all Nashvillians. Dear TSU Family, Tennessee State University shares the pain of those mourning the loss of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We also share that same anguish, sadness and outrage for the other black men and women across the country who are victims of police brutality because of the color of their skin. Our hearts ache for them and their loved ones, and also for the city that we call home. Nashville has had to endure the seemingly unimaginable this year. The decimation of deadly tornadoes; the physical, mental and economic impact of a pandemic; and now a peaceful rise against injustice that turned violent. While TSU does not condone the violence that erupted during the recent protests in Nashville and nationally, the university sternly and unequivocally opposes injustice and racism. Our institution has a rich history in the civil rights movement, as well as the modern-day movement. Many of our former students helped integrate Nashville's lunch counters, a historic moment in the city's history. Today, our students, from around the country and here in Nashville, are leaders in their communities fighting for change. We must seize this opportunity to continue the dialogue to demand fair and equitable treatment for all Americans, for all Nashvillians.
A Statement from President Oldham

Published Tuesday Jun 2, 2020
MEDIA RESOURCES
Our nation continues to be marred by injustice, racism, and violence. We observe recent events, that we have seen all too often, that threaten our ability to live with respect for each other.  The unwarranted death of George Floyd should never be forgotten.  I am saddened and struck with the overwhelming belief that we, as a nation, are better than this.

As a university community, we must take a stand and remain committed to our core values of inclusion, respect, kindness, and tolerance toward all.  Our students will be forever shaped by our words, actions, and response to the inexcusable treatment of people of color we have witnessed. 

At Tennessee Tech, we will be a safe place for African American students, faculty and staff. I ask you to hear their voices and pray that all of us will be granted an extra measure of God’s wisdom, grace, tolerance, and patience as we listen to each other and stand beside one another.

RETURN TO NEWS ROOM
The Texas A&M System condemns all racist behaviors, actions, and comments that tear at the moral fabric of our nation. The System is appalled at the deplorable and egregious acts of brutality by some police officers against African Americans. As the nation grieves, the A&M System is also experiencing sorrow and has devoted its platform to stand up against unjust racial disparities.

Based on diversity as a core value of our system, we denounce all forms of violence perpetrated against African Americans. The death of George Floyd, and many others, at the hand of police officers is a despicable and unacceptable outcome. Suffice it to say: IT MUST STOP. All forms of racism, from bias and micro-aggressions to racialized violence, create an undue weight on our faculty, staff, students of color, and administration. As such, there is a direct need to continue to educate and act on our values of inclusion and equity.

The Texas A&M System shall take all necessary steps to ensure that its employees and students are committed to the tenets of human respect and decency. To make a positive impact, we will make a unified commitment to translate our ideals into action for sustainable and proactive change. Equally as important, The Texas A&M System shall remain committed to providing an inclusive environment where all its members can thrive safely.

The A&M System believes all universities under the auspices of the Texas A&M Banner shall speak out against systemic and institutional racism at all levels. Likewise, we urgently call on all Texans and the nation to resist hateful and racist actions and refuse to drink from the bitter cup of divisiveness.

Dr. LaVelle Hendricks, Chair, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Angela Allen, West Texas A&M University
Dr. Carol Bunch Davis, Texas A&M University-Galveston
Larry Davis, Texas A&M University-Central Texas
Dr. Toney Favors, Texas A&M University-Texarkana
Dr. Manuel Flores, Texas A&M University-Kingsville
Elma De Luna-Gonzalez, Prairie View A&M University
Tim Gritten, Texas A&M University-San Antonio
Dr. Peter Haruna, Texas A&M International University
Dr. Lince Tiburcio, Tarleton University
Dr. Sherdeana Owens, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Dr. Christine Stanley, Texas A&M University
Dr. Julia Ballenger, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Joyce Miller, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Minita Ramirez, Texas A&M International University
Carl Greig, Texas A&M University-Texarkana
Dr. Corinne Valadez, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Dr. Jennifer Schroeder, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Brenda Moore, Texas A&M University-Commerce


Dear Texas Tech University family,
We have all been affected and saddened by the tragic and violent events in Minneapolis,
Minnesota. The events have brought to mind difficult and complex questions about racism
and justice. For some of our fellow students, faculty, and employees, what happened to
George Floyd feels like it could happen to them too.
That requires all of us to have an extra measure of compassion and understanding as we
move forward. Take time to listen to one another, to have the hard conversations and
uncomfortable exchanges. It is precisely those dialogues that strengthen the sense of
community that is an essential part of our university.
I want to reaffirm Texas Tech's unwavering commitment to a welcoming environment for all.
Many ethnicities are proudly represented on this campus, and our students are drawn from all
50 states and more than one hundred countries. That is a great strength, but it also means that
all of us—the administration, faculty, employees, and students alike—must treat every
person in this community with the respect and compassion they deserve. That is our bedrock
standard, and no matter our background, our bond as Red Raiders unifies us in a common
cause and in our responsibility to one another.
This past spring, the University held a series of dialogues about race relations on campus,
and that work has never felt more urgent. We intend to continue these efforts in the year
ahead and I also want to call attention to the many resources that are here for students,
faculty, staff, and administrators in the meantime. We have first-rate health and counseling
services to support you and additional educational resources and programs are provided
through the Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, and the Center for Campus Life. We
will work with colleagues across the Texas Tech University System, the Athletics
Department, the Texas Tech Police Department, as well as with our elected officials and
civic leaders here in Lubbock, to ensure your safety and well-being.
We are all Red Raiders, and we are all dedicated to a University that celebrates diversity and
draws strength from it. Following the closures of this spring, we aim to return to campus as
unified as ever. That's the Texas Tech way. And it reflects our most deeply held values of
respect, inclusion, compassion, and mutual concern.
We look forward to being able to resume our campus life, and I wish all of you the best in the
weeks and months to come.
Sincerely,
Lawrence Schovanec
President
Texas Tech University


TTIC's Mission Statement says: "TTIC is committed to the values of human freedom, dignity, prosperity, and diversity." President Turk confirmed in an internal mail to the TTIC community on Tuesday that the Institute is firmly committed to those values, and supports those demanding an end to intolerance, discrimination, marginalization, and bigotry. Racism and discrimination have devastating effects on society. Silence plays a key role in upholding and supporting narratives that contribute to systems of oppression and injustice.

The recent killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery, along with too many others, have caused profound new grief and adversely affect our lives and the lives of those we care about in significant ways. We must individually and collectively reflect on the lives lost unnecessarily, and the systemic problems and challenges we all face as a society. The unnecessary race-based killings and violence must end.
Community Message on Racial Injustice
Sunday, May, 31st, 2020 President's Desk Speeches and Messages

May 31, 2020

Dear members of the Tufts University community,

This spring has been a difficult one for our entire community, as all of our lives have taken turns that were inconceivable just months ago. But it is important to recognize that we have not all been challenged in the same ways. The coronavirus pandemic, with its disproportionate impact on the health and economic status of communities of color, has revealed, once again, the deep disparities that continue to exist in our nation. And the recent acts of violence against Black people demonstrate, once again, the racism and injustice that persist in our society.

I recognize that I have the privilege of being able to go for a jog or put on a mask without fearing that my skin color will make me a target. Not all members of our society—and our Tufts community—enjoy such privilege. To our Black students, faculty, staff and alumni, please know that I stand with you in demanding these injustices stop.

As a community, we want to come together, share our pain, and find a way to be a part of the solution. But we are currently separated around the world. I hope we can use our distance as a strength, rather than a barrier. Let’s work to improve the communities in which we find ourselves today and hope that by our actions, we can begin to knit this nation together.

I hope you will stay safe and support one another during these difficult times.

Best wishes,

Tony Monaco

A MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT LILY D. McNAIR "Dear Students, Alumni, Colleagues and Friends:


This past week, we have all experienced a range of emotions after viewing the horrific and senseless murder of George Floyd at the hands of law enforcement officials. As a mother, wife and president of Tuskegee University with more than 2,800 students – of which 35% are male – I am concerned about your safety and futures. While Black males have been the most obvious targets of police brutality and mistreatment, I am equally distressed about the fate of Black women who have increasingly suffered from similar miscarriages of justice.


I have a particularly heightened sense of concern for your safety and general well-being during these trying times. After watching the weekend protests occurring in major cities in the country, my heart sank again as I saw the video of two students from our sister institutions of Morehouse College and Spelman College who were forcibly removed from their vehicle and tasered by Atlanta police without obvious provocation. The death of George Floyd and these subsequent protests have exposed the troubling state of our country on many fronts – including racial disparities, social injustices, and economic inequalities that disproportionately affect the poor and people of color. Although many of you may choose to participate in these protests, I ask that you be mindful of the notable cause of peaceful protests. 


You are an important part of my family, so I ask that you stay safe. We will be working with student leaders and others over the coming days and weeks to engage in action-oriented solutions focused on anti-racism, peace, equality, and social justice reform. Join the Division of Student Affairs on Thursday, June 4, at 8:00 p.m. central time on Zoom for ""Know Peace, Know Justice: A Safety and Mental Health Discussion."" The Zoom link will be sent separately and posted on social media.


Stay safe. Stay focused. Know that we will get through this together.


Sincerely,
 
Lily D. McNair, Ph.D.
President"

Minneapolis, Louisville, Atlanta
Published May 30, 2020

Dear university community,

At the University at Buffalo, we believe that intolerance, hatred and institutional racism have no place in our community or our nation. That is precisely why our university—in principle and in practice—has deliberately cultivated a diverse, inclusive community grounded in respect for each other’s humanity.
 
As a university community, we are deeply saddened by the lives senselessly taken in Minneapolis, Atlanta and Louisville. As we watch neighborhoods and cities consumed by destruction and chaos, we mourn peacefully but not passively.
 
Instead, with unwavering compassion, let us lift our voices together and, as one, pledge that all people—regardless of race or gender—be afforded a life of liberty, equality, opportunity and dignity.

Sincerely,
 
Satish K. Tripathi
President


Important Message from UAB Leaders
by Tyler Greer
June 01, 2020 Print Email
UAB Community,

Integrity, respect, accountability, diversity and inclusiveness are shared values of our institution and are at the core of what it means to be a UAB Blazer. Everybody counts every day. The students, faculty and staff who comprise our richly diverse and inclusive campus — and take pride in living these values — are hurting, along with our community and country.

The senseless murder of George Floyd — fueled by racism and hate — is tragic, unacceptable and not isolated. The recent abhorrent killings of Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery show a disturbing pattern and are proof that an intentional focus on the values we espouse as members of the UAB community are needed now. These incidents have continued to surface as we navigate the COVID-19 pandemic, which has highlighted the systemic health disparities in African American and Latinx communities consistently addressed by leadership in our School of Medicine, as well as uneven enforcement of social distancing executive orders and anti-Asian bias. 

Nothing we can say can heal the deep pain and fear in our community. But we can recognize injustice and actively and purposefully live for integrity, respect, accountability, diversity and inclusiveness every day. Do not let your concern subside. Be a difference for positive change.

We are proud of and affirm our student government association's condemnation of these tragedies and its message encouraging fellow students to take actions beyond words with "donations, signing petitions, safely attending protests, and exercising your civic duties."

There are many opportunities to get involved. We encourage all of our students, faculty and staff to learn more about and seek the resources and programming offered by UAB's Student Multicultural and Diversity Programs and Office of Diversity Equity and Inclusion. 

Self-care is important in times like these. If you need them, utilize the free counseling services UAB offers through Student Counseling Servicesand the Employee Assistance Counseling Center.

Please take care of yourself and each other.

Sincerely,

Ray L. Watts, President

Pam Benoit, Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost

Allen Bolton, Senior Vice President for Finance and Administration

Selwyn Vickers, Senior Vice President for Medicine and Dean, School of Medicine

Jim Bakken, Interim Chief Communications Officer

Shannon Blanton, Dean, Honors College

Tom Brannan, Vice President for Advancement

Jennifer Breland, President, Staff Council

Chris Brown, Vice President for Research

Andrew Butler, Dean, School of Health Professions

Curt Carver, Vice President for Information Technology/Chief Information Officer

Autumn Cypres, Dean, School of Education

Paulette Dilworth, Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Paul Erwin, Dean, School of Public Health

Will Ferniany, CEO, UAB Health System

Kasia Gonnerman, Dean, Libraries

Doreen Harper, Dean, School of Nursing

Ria Hearld, Chair, Faculty Senate

Mark Ingram, Director of Athletics

Eric Jack, Dean, School of Business

Alesia Jones, Chief Human Resources Officer

John Jones, Vice President for Student Affairs 

Lori McMahon, Dean, Graduate School

Kelly Nichols, Dean, School of Optometry

Kathy Nugent, Executive Director, Harbert Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship

Rosie O'Beirne, Interim Associate Vice President for Digital Strategy and Marketing

Robert Palazzo, Dean, College of Arts and Sciences

Russell Taichman, Dean, School of Dentistry

Tim Wick, Interim Dean, School of Engineering 

UA Little Rock Stands with Students, Faculty, and Staff
JUNE 2, 2020

Trojan Family,

This is a difficult time for our country as we struggle with the harmful effects of racism. We grieve with the families of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and so many others. I want you to know that UA Little Rock stands against racism and hate and stands with those who support social justice and equality.

As an institution, we are not immune to issues of inequity and intolerance. Particularly with regard to issues of race and ethnicity, we have not done enough. While we still have much room for improvement, we are committed to doing the work that is required of us to ensure we provide members of our campus community with the space and support to operate authentically in their identity, free from harassment and disrespect.

I know there are members of our campus community, especially those who identify as African American, who are in great pain at this time as you struggle to process this latest tragedy, while navigating the enduring systems of discrimination that you face in your day-to-day life. We want you to know that you have a place at UA Little Rock, and it is important that we continue to work together to ensure the safety and well-being of every member of our campus community. We are here for you and we care for you. You matter.

I am committed to making sure that every member of our campus community is valued, respected, and celebrated–we are stronger together.

Christina S. Drale
Chancellor


Together against Racism and Injustice
June 1, 2020

Dear UBC community:

Recent anti-Black and anti-Asian violence in communities across North America has focused our attention on the deeply rooted racism in Canada and globally.  UBC itself is not immune to racism and injustice.

As a university, we need to make it crystal clear that racism and bias have no place in our community and that we have zero tolerance for it.

On behalf of the University, I condemn and denounce all incidents of anti-Black and anti-Asian racism and the continued racism and oppression that is directed at Indigenous communities. We must work together to dismantle the tools of oppression and white supremacy that remain prevalent and entrenched in our everyday systems.  It is my hope that at least here at UBC, we can work to model a different kind of community – one where we embrace difference and work to build each other up while enacting values of dignity, mutual respect, and justice.

Deeply connected to the wider region, and benefiting from the privilege of being on unceded land, UBC must be responsive to the needs of our wider community and committed to advancing the understanding of equity, diversity, and inclusion. As a public sector institution, we have an obligation and commitment towards the public good; and as a place of learning and engagement, we are uniquely positioned to generate and mobilize knowledge that can transform systems of oppression and support emerging leaders that can help shape not only our campus, but workplaces and communities beyond our campuses. As such we will be organizing a series of public engagements focused on anti-racism.

As the President of UBC, I reaffirm our institutional commitment to inclusion and call for the acceleration and intensification of efforts to build a more inclusive campus community.  Over the coming weeks, I will

Ensure adequate resources to implement the goals and actions of the Inclusion Action Plan.
Meet with the Black Caucus and the Asian Canadian Community Engagement Group.
Support the diversification of the professoriate through the allocation of President’s Excellence Chairs to Black and Indigenous faculty members.
Support identity-based spaces and organizations and ensure that they continue to receive the funding they need.
Fulfill commitments within the Inclusion Action Plan for the recruitment, retention and support of Black students, staff, and faculty.
Ensure that all our public safety officers and other authority figures are adequately trained to eliminate any unconscious or implicit bias.
Endeavour to diversify our community at every level through defined programs.
As recommended by the External review of the Equity & Inclusion Office, establish a dotted line reporting relationship to the Associate Vice President, Equity & Inclusion.
I will also be working closely with members of our administration, the Associate Vice President, Equity & Inclusion, and relevant committees and groups to assess and look at ways that we can enhance our efforts to build a more inclusive campus. We will host a  virtual town hall to elevate voices that are traditionally silenced in our institution and to monitor progress.

At UBC, diversity is our strength – inclusion of different perspectives and experiences is critical to the wellbeing of our community and the individual and collective pursuit of excellence. We can play a role against hatred, oppression, violence and injustice and find a way to support and elevate those who have been traditionally, systemically, and historically marginalized.

I encourage you to think about the role you can play in fighting racism and with that I urge you to read this post on solidarity and anti-racist action from our colleagues at the Equity & Inclusion Office.

If you are in need of support with respect to your wellbeing, please contact UBC Counselling Services or EFAP, explore some ways for self-care, and if you feel that you have faced discrimination while working or studying at UBC, please contact our human rights team. This post on sustainable self-care may also be useful.

On a personal note, I say to racialized students and colleagues at UBC: this is not the first time in history that you have experienced heightened stigmatization and racism. You are strong and resilient and will thrive in the face of this as you have done throughout history. Please don’t let racism cloud your spirit. Go and be the brilliant minds and compassionate hearts that you are, and continue to shine at UBC. You belong here.

If you think there is more UBC can do, I want to hear from you at presidents.office@ubc.ca.

Santa J. Ono
President and Vice-Chancellor

Letter to the UBC Community

A message from campus leaders: Standing together
MAY 29, 2020


EmailPrint
Chancellor Carol Christ and Oscar Dubón, Jr., vice chancellor for equity and inclusion, sent the following message to the campus community on Friday:

While we all profoundly feel the suffering and loss related to COVID-19—suffering and loss visited disproportionately on those who are Black, indigenous, people of color, and poor—we are appalled by the racist killings of recent weeks. We write to express our outrage; we stand in steadfast solidarity with our Black community; and we offer heartfelt condolences to the loved ones of the victims of the racially-motivated violence that is taking place in various communities across America. Unchecked violence at the hands of police and civilians requires our – and all of society's – urgent attention.

As a campus community, we stand with the family of Ahmaud Arbery, who was murdered while jogging in Georgia by two white men. We stand with Christian Cooper, who was the victim of a woman's attempt to use the police as a weapon against him while he pursued his passion for birdwatching in New York's Central Park. We stand with the loved ones of Breonna Taylor, an essential worker during this pandemic who was killed in her home by police. We stand against the senseless killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis by a police officer who knelt on his neck, while three others watched and assisted, as Mr. Floyd choked out the same final words of another slain Black man, Eric Garner: "I can't breathe."

Let us say their names, acknowledge their humanity, and commit to doing what we can to build a more just society.

Let us also acknowledge that while these names and incidents made their way into the national news and discourse, they are not by any means isolated, nor is the racism that underlies them.

According to Rutgers University Sociologist Frank Edwards, one out of every 1,000 Black men in America will be killed by a police officer. This makes them two and half times more likely than white men to die during encounters with officers.

Less noticed by the mainstream media but equally important to elevate are Black women, gender non-conforming and trans people who have been murdered in recent weeks and months.

We must call out and hold accountable our broken structures, build bridges that will lead to mutual understanding and respect across differences, and work to create a future in which we can all thrive, especially in these most challenging times. This work must happen across the nation – and it must happen on a local level as well.

We acknowledge the grief, anger, sadness, helplessness, and outrage that these killings create in our community. Let us channel those feelings toward a commitment to each others' wellness. If you would like support, please contact UC Berkeley Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). Counselors are available for phone and video counseling appointments. There are also new online self-help tools. Visit the CAPS website, call Counseling and Psychological Services at (510) 642-9494, or, when the Tang Center is closed, call the after-hours counseling line (855) 817-5667. CAPS employs mental health professionals trained to provide support to individuals from a wide array of identities, including traditionally marginalized or disenfranchised groups.

In addition, Be Well at Work – Employee Assistance provides free confidential counseling and referrals for our faculty, staff, visiting scholars, and postdocs. To schedule an appointment with an Employee Assistance counselor, please contact (510) 643-7754 or email employeeassistance@berkeley.edu.

Finally, please be aware of the following resources:

Student Organizations: Our campus has numerous and diverse student organizations that students may wish to get involved in. You can explore at callink.berkeley.edu.
Centers for Educational Justice & Community Engagement: These centers provide space, programs, and services for Berkeley's diverse student communities. Learn more at ejce.berkeley.edu/mcc or (510) 642-6528.
Reporting: For information and support on reporting hate crimes or hate-motivated acts, visit stophate.berkeley.edu.
As a campus community, we must uphold a standard of care and respect in both words and actions that lives up to our values and principles of community. This is a time for greater self-examination of society's institutions and structures—including our university—and a bold commitment to healthier national and campus cultures. In this way, we honor lives lost or forever changed through acts of hate and violence by bringing about change for justice and belonging.
To the UC Davis Community:

"I can't breathe." These were the last words uttered by Eric Garner as he was being murdered on Staten Island in 2014.

"I can't breathe."These were among the last words spoken by George Floyd as he suffered the same fate under hauntingly similar circumstances in Minneapolis on Monday evening.

In 2014, I tried to explain the Garner incident to my daughters. Yesterday, I tried to explain the Floyd incident to myself. In both cases, I fell short. Murder captured on video defies explanation.

Needless to say, these tragedies hit my family and me hard. I know it's touched a deep nerve with many of you as well. You have reached out to express your support, concern, sadness and anger, and I appreciate it. To be honest, it's been difficult for me to know how to address this because it is so personal.

I lived in Georgia for nearly 30 years, where Ahmaud Arbery was hunted and killed. George Floyd could have been any African American man, including me. Beyond the constant barrage of fear of the negative consequences of birding while black, shopping while black, cooking out while black, exercising while black — it is just exhausting. And I'm tired.

I can't claim to speak for all African Americans or all people of color. And to ask me or others like me to do so is a burden others don't have to carry. So I have thought a lot about how America got here, so long ago, and why we haven't made as much progress as we often claim.

The events of this week also cause me to believe even more strongly, if that's possible, in building an inclusive environment that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. I remain committed to that and hope you will do what you can to eliminate racism, sexism, and other negative influences on our progression as a nation.

Perhaps higher education can be that positive influence on lives beyond an education. Perhaps here we can create a way forward. Perhaps here we can breathe.

Sincerely,

Gary S. May
Chancellor

Category
Messages and Announcements
Tags
Chancellor's Messages
Offices of the Chancellor and Provost
Fifth Floor, Mrak Hall
University of California, Davis
One Shields Avenue
Davis, CA 95616

(530) 752-2065

Categories
Messages and Announcements
Speeches
Related Articles
Kayton Carter, Renetta Garrison Tull and Chancellor May stand together in a moment of silence. 
Checking In With Chancellor May: Beyond the Moment
June 05, 2020
Provost Hexter standing outside looking at camera
A Message to Our Students as We Near the Close of Spring 2020
June 04, 2020
Chancellor May sitting at desk writing a letter
Checking In With Chancellor May: A Way Forward
May 29, 2020
Chancellor Gary May seriously and thoughtfully looking to the side
Checking In With Chancellor May: Reflection
May 22, 2020
Chancellor May sitting at desk writing a letter
Coronavirus Update for Incoming Fall 2020 Students
May 21, 2020

In Support of the African American Community
May 31, 2020
Dear UCI Community:

We watched with shock and horror the video of a white policeman callously, even casually, kneeling on the neck of an unarmed and unresisting black man until that man was dead, while other policemen stood by and watched.  This brutal and racist act was like something out of Mississippi during Jim Crow, out of the past we don't acknowledge enough, but it wasn't.  It is our reality, in the here and now, a reality that reflects the harsh, brutal, terrible, ongoing legacy of America's original sin.

We empathize with the pain, sadness, and anger that many Black students, employees, and alumni understandably are feeling.  Please reach out to any of us if we can help you during this extraordinary time.

The unrest that is roiling our country, from coast to coast, is a profoundly distressing statement of the crisis of our society.  At the core of this crisis is the reality of anti-Black racism in the United States.  The death of George Floyd was not isolated.  Breonna Taylor, a first responder, died in a hail of gunfire in her Louisville home in March.  Tony McDade, a Black trans-masculine person, was shot and killed by Tallahassee police.  Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia was hunted down and murdered by vigilantes.  His story is all too familiar.  Unarmed, Trayvon Martin was killed by George Zimmerman in 2012.  Their crime: jogging and walking while Black.  This sickening and outrageous roll call goes on and on.

The response to these and other unjustified deaths reflects a profound and justified sense of grievance and frustration with policing and our justice system.  The unrest that we are witnessing is no less about the persistence of systematic oppression and exclusion in educational opportunity, participation in the economy, access to health care, and all areas of social life essential to social justice and human well being.   

As Vice Chancellor Haynes noted in his message last Thursday, the experience of anti-Blackness belies the notion that "We are all in this together." 

But if we are to survive, as a nation, as a society, we must be in this together.  

Here at UCI, an institution devoted to the betterment of the world, our Inclusive Excellence Action Plan focuses on promoting a campus culture defined by community, thriving, and wellness.  That is not enough.  We can and must do more. All of us, collectively, must confront the distinctive, fundamental reality of anti-Blackness. We must also look forward and explore what we can do—in our practices, our teaching, our research, our community engagement, our interpersonal interactions—to mitigate the pervasive and systemic injustices and brutalities of anti-Blackness.

To this end, Vice Chancellor Haynes will develop and launch by fall 2020 a wide-ranging initiative.  With input from campus stakeholders and community, this initiative will ensure that our campus community is educated about anti-Blackness, takes steps to dismantle anti-Black sentiment, enhances scholarly expertise and research, promotes the intellectual and cultural capital of Black communities, transforms the professoriate and knowledge workforce of the future, and identifies other ways we can rise to the serious challenges confronting all of us.   

We stand in unity with the African-American community to deepen everyone's understanding so that we make this world a better place, for today and for future generations.  To do this work we must be in this together.

Let there be light for us all,

Chancellor Howard Gillman
Interim Provost Hal Stern
Vice Chancellor, Student Affairs Willie Banks
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Douglas Haynes
UCI Chief of Police Liz Griffin
The Pain Behind the Protests
Campus Update
To the Campus Community:

Across the country, people are horrified by the recent killings of three African Americans: Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd. We share that outrage. And these are only a few of the most recent deaths to cause particular anguish amongst those who for too long have endured cruelty after cruelty, indignity after indignity.

What stood out about the killing of George Floyd — more than its senselessness, more than its brutality – was its casualness. What was so chilling was the relaxed demeanor of a police officer — sworn to protect and to serve — his hands calmly in his pockets, kneeling on the neck of a fellow human being, indifferent to his cries of pain and the fear for his life. Equally harrowing was his three fellow officers who stood there and did not recognize the need to intervene in a life or death situation. All these behaviors reflected the utter dehumanization of Black life.

We must never let that indifference to human suffering become our own. We must never deaden our hearts to the pain of others. Our fundamental values demand that we care.

At UCLA, we believe deeply that equity, respect and justice are central to the character of our institution, to the health of our democracy and to the well-being of our world. Still, we recognize that UCLA also can and must do better. As campus leaders, we recommit ourselves to ensuring that our policies and actions value the lives, safety and dignity of every Bruin.

We have begun the process of coordinating virtual reflection spaces for departments and units, where we can come together to try and process what has happened. With assistance from the Office for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion and the university’s Equity Advisors, we are also trying to share ways we can honestly and humbly acknowledge the pain and search for solutions. This includes working with student government leaders to understand and address the needs of our students. Our efforts will be updated on the Resources for Racial Trauma web page as we push forward to deeper understanding and genuine change.

We conclude by stating unequivocally that Black lives DO matter. They matter at UCLA. They matter in Minnesota. They matter everywhere.

In solidarity,
Gene D. Block
Chancellor
Emily A. Carter
Executive Vice Chancellor and
Provost
Michael Meranze
Chair, Academic Senate
Michael J. Beck
Administrative Vice Chancellor
Gregg Goldman
Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer
Monroe Gorden, Jr.
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Jerry Kang
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity
and Inclusion
Michael S. Levine
Vice Chancellor for Academic Personnel
John Mazziotta
Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences
CEO, UCLA Health

Louise C. Nelson
Vice Chancellor for Legal Affairs
Mary Osako
Vice Chancellor for Strategic Communications

Rhea Turteltaub
Vice Chancellor for External Affairs
Roger Wakimoto
Vice Chancellor for Research
Yolanda J. Gorman
Senior Advisor to the Chancellor and Chief of Staff

Dan Guerrero
The Alice and Nahum Lainer Family Director of Athletics
Antonio E. Bernardo
Dean, Anderson School of
Management
Ronald S. Brookmeyer
Dean, Fielding School of Public Health
Eric Bullard
Dean, Continuing Education and UCLA Extension

Miguel A. García-Garibay
Dean, Division of Physical Sciences
Robin L. Garrell
Vice Provost, Graduate Education
Dean, Graduate Division

Darnell M. Hunt
Dean, Division of Social Sciences
Brian Kite
Interim Dean, School of Theater, Film and Television

Paul H. Krebsbach
Dean, School of Dentistry
Kelsey Martin
Dean, David Geffen School of Medicine
Jennifer L. Mnookin
Dean, School of Law
Jayathi Y. Murthy
Dean, Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science

Linda Sarna
Dean, School of Nursing
Gary M. Segura
Dean, Luskin School of Public Affairs
David Schaberg
Dean, Division of Humanities
Victoria Sork
Dean, Division of Life Sciences

Brett Steele
Dean, School of the Arts and Architecture
Eileen Strempel
Dean, The Herb Alpert School of
Music
Marcelo Suárez-Orozco
Dean, Graduate School of Education & Information Studies

Pat Turner
Senior Dean, College
Dean and Vice Provost, Undergraduate Education

Tony Lee
Chief of UCLA Police Department
Naomi Riley
President, Undergraduate Students Association
Jean Paul Santos
President, Graduate Students Association
 
UC Riverside Mourns the Death of George Floyd
KIM A. WILCOX
Chancellor
May 29, 2020
Dear Campus Community,

In March and early April, elected leaders held daily press conferences in which they reported the number of ventilators they had secured. In hospitals and labs, physicians, scientists, and device manufacturers looked for new ways to help patients suffering from COVID-19 breathe. Both federal and state entities went to great expense to ensure that those who needed it had air.

Then, this week, videos showed a police officer with his knee pushing into the neck of an African American man named George Floyd, while two others held his legs as he took his last breath. Before he died, Floyd pleaded, "I can't breathe," to the men who took his life. 

There is no denying that air is sought for some and stolen from others. 

The death of George Floyd follows the death of Ahmaud Arbery, an unarmed African American man chased down and shot by white men while jogging near his home in Georgia. 

We represent an institution committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion. To those of you who too well understand the fear of being arrested, assaulted or killed because of the color of your skin – from ongoing Anti-Black racism to COVID-19 Anti-Asian upsurges, we want you to know we are with you and grateful that you are a part of our community. We will continue to foster an environment that not only values equality but fights inequity where we see it.

Our country has buried too many in recent months. We mourn all of these lost lives but today grieve most deeply a loss that didn't have to be and reaffirm our commitment to work toward a better tomorrow. 
Statement on George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery
Today our hearts are burdened, our minds are searching, and our spirits are processing a mix of disbelief, anger and sadness. The news of George Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on Monday night and the disturbing video of his final moments has shocked the world. Taken in context with the recent killings of Breonna Taylor (by police in her own home) and Ahmaud Arbery (by neighbors while jogging), our black community members, in particular, are outraged, traumatized, fearful and in profound pain.

Grief and concern in their purest forms have been made even more poignant during this time of great uncertainty due to the global public health crisis. The coronavirus pandemic has magnified the long history of racism in our country, ongoing inequity, and the status quo of the dehumanization of our fellow Black Americans.

How do we react? What do we do? Where do we start?
We begin by extending our sincere, heartfelt sympathies to the loved ones of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We join in mourning their unspeakably tragic and untimely deaths. We stand in solidarity with our black family, friends and neighbors in their time of need and help them shoulder their everyday lives so that they have the necessary time to mourn and process the deeper meanings of these losses. And most importantly, no matter how painful, difficult or uncomfortable, we must review these events with full transparency and recognize there are systemic problems in our society that desperately need our attention, time and energy to remedy.

We must recognize the violation of human rights and the devastating effects that systemic racism, oppression and violence have on the safety, security and health of communities of color. We cannot let these acts be normalized or allow ourselves to become numb to them. The University of California San Diego unequivocally condemns the disproportionate use of excessive force by some police in communities of color.

We also denounce vigilante acts that terrorize members of the community based upon race, ethnicity, country of origin, religion, disability, gender, gender identity, or sexual orientation. We as a community must not and will not tolerate acts of hate, bias or violence. We are committed to doing what can be done within our institution to make sure everyone feels that they belong and that they matter. This should be our commitment to ourselves and to each other.

Where do we go from here?
In the coming weeks, our Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion has planned community conversations to provide spaces for healing and identifying ways to be agents of change in this moment. Details are forthcoming and will be communicated via campus notice.

We know that statements such as these do not resolve the intractable issues we face as a country. We know it does not even begin to heal the hurt and trauma caused by structural and systemic racism and discrimination. Collectively, let us continue to work together for a more just, equitable and humane society in our service, activism, pedagogy, and community and collaborative efforts.

Pradeep K. Khosla
Chancellor

Elizabeth H. Simmons
Executive Vice Chancellor

Maripat Corr
Chair, San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

Steven Constable
Vice Chair, San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

David A. Brenner
Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences

Margaret S. Leinen
Vice Chancellor for Marine Sciences

Sandra A. Brown
Vice Chancellor for Research

Gary C. Matthews
Vice Chancellor for Resource Management and Planning

Pierre Ouillet
Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer

Becky R. Petitt
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion

Alysson Satterlund
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Judy Bruner
Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer

Anne L. Buckley
Chief Communications and Marketing Officer

Vince Kellen
Chief Information Officer

Patty Maysent
Chief Executive Officer for UC San Diego Health

Daniel W. Park
Chief Campus Counsel

Nancy Resnick
Chief Human Resource Officer

David S. Rose
Chief of Police

Michael Trigilio
Chair of the Committee on Diversity and Equity
San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

SHARE
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Email
Print


Statement on George Floyd
To: UC Santa Cruz Community

From: Chancellor Cynthia Larive

May 29, 2020

SHARE THIS STORY:TwitterFacebookLinkedInReddit
Dear Campus Community,

I write today to share our pain, sadness, and anger for the murder of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota. In the midst of this unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic, the all too common violence and threat of violence perpetrated against Black people and other communities of color in our country escalates. George Floyd’s death is part of an appalling history of racist harassment, assault, and murder that stretches back far too long in the life of our nation. There are too many victims whose experiences never made headlines and whose names will never become public. I know that grief weighs heavily on many members of our community. I struggle with my own sense of heartbreak.

Our university struggles with and works within the same context of white supremacist systems, structures, and conditions that make life more dangerous and precarious for people of color. Universities, like our country, have taken too long to translate our ideals into action or sustainable change. Transforming the university takes work, and we are still engaged in that work. The pace of change is frustratingly slow and the instruments of change are imperfect. The difficulties of this past year for our community highlight how far we have to go. 

I encourage you to reach out to campus services for support. In addition to support services offered by staff in our colleges and resource centers, Counseling and Psychological Services provides assistance for students. For employees, the Employee Assistance Program can provide counseling and support.

Sincerely,

Cindy

Our community and events in Minneapolis and Chicago
 
To: Members of the University Community
From: Ka Yee C. Lee, Provost
Subject: Our community and events in Minneapolis and Chicago
Date: May 30, 2020
 
Our nation is confronting painful issues in the wake of the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis and a number of other racially motivated incidents. These recent examples represent a small fraction of the bias and violence that occurs across the U.S. and around the world each day. The deep alarm expressed by people throughout the country, including in our home of Chicago, reflects many decades of grief and anguish over the intractable scourge of racism against minority communities, particularly African Americans.
 
I know that many of you are feeling sadness, pain, and anger over these recent events. In these already difficult times, this is an occasion for solidarity and for a strengthened commitment to care for each other and work to improve our community, our city and, our nation. Even though most of us are separated by distance as this quarter comes to a close, our shared values bind us together to seek truth, value diversity, and strive for justice.
 
Diversity and inclusion are core values of our institution. We value every member of our campus community, and each of us should show respect for one another. The vitality of the South Side is fundamentally linked with that of the University, and we esteem the deep relationships and partnerships that the residents of the South Side and members of the University community have built together. Fostering a sense of trust, inclusion, belonging and safety for our faculty, other academic appointees, staff, and students is always a priority, and especially so during this time. In the coming days, there will be more information about opportunities for our community to come together in dialogue about these issues.
 
We also encourage you to access the many valuable University resources that may be helpful to you right now:
 
The Center for Identity + Inclusion engages students and members of our University community from all backgrounds to ensure personal, academic, and professional growth, and success.
The Center for the Study of Race, Politics, and Culture offers a wide array of programming, including a Zoom series focused on the racial disparities of COVID-19.
The Pozen Center for Human Rights offers regular programming about global human rights.
Spiritual Life serves as a destination for religious and spiritual needs.
UChicago Student Wellness offers counseling services and other support for students impacted by these and other events.
The Urban Health Initiative runs inclusive community grants and organizes a variety of community programs and services.
The Diversity & Inclusion website features a listing of related events happening across campus.
 
Thank you for the continuing work of people across our University to build a strong, supportive, and inclusive community.
 
 
Keywords: 
Announcements
Diversity and Inclusion
It is hard not to be haunted by the brutal reality that Dr. King’s words are needed as much in 2020 as they were in 1967. America has failed to hear the profound ways we are, repeatedly, failing each other. And not only in small, I-will-do-better-next-time ways. But in the biggest way imaginable—by failing to fight for the basic humanity of our neighbor. Our hearts ache for the family and friends of George Floyd, as they continue to do so for the loved ones of Samuel DuBose. We must agree destruction of our neighborhoods is not the answer. Let us instead heed the clarion call from President Obama to "work together to create a ‘new normal’ in which the legacy of bigotry and unequal treatment no longer infects our institutions or our hearts."
From the Chancellor - Standing against hate and violence
May 29, 2020

As I see national news stories about the death of George Floyd and other recent acts of racism, I reflect on the conversations I had earlier this year with our students about these very issues. 

Even though a global pandemic is keeping us apart from each other, I share in your pain, anger and sadness. When we see acts of racism, it affects us deeply and takes a physical, mental and emotional toll. We must reach out and support each other as we process what has happened. For me, I will not lose hope. I take heart in how our students have engaged with us over the last academic year. We had honest conversations in a genuine effort to enhance campus climate together and build a more welcoming, safe and inclusive community for all.

These intolerable injustices, whether they happen in Minnesota, New York or here in Colorado, strike at the core of everything we believe. Let me be clear: I am committed to diversity and inclusion of everyone on our campus. 

We stand in solidarity with all members of our campus community, including our police department and the city of Boulder in encouraging and supporting peaceful demonstrations.

As a campus community, it is incumbent on us to encourage civil discourse that lifts us all from this darkness. Universities can be, and must be, at the heart of social change. As a campus, we continuously work to cultivate a diverse, inclusive and welcoming community. We best illustrate this through our moral actions when we see injustice, close to home or far away.

Please take care of yourselves, each other and use our campus support resources, which continue to be available during these difficult times. 
 

Phil DiStefano,
CU Boulder Chancellor
Dear UConn Community,

Recent events have called national attention yet again to the destructive power of prejudice and racism. The death of George Floyd in police custody in Minneapolis serves as our most recent example. We are disgusted by the images we have seen capturing the unconscionable acts that caused his death. Demonstrations across the country make clear that communities are hurting and frustrated by repeated acts of violence against their neighbors, friends, and families. These events have saddened and angered so many on a deeply personal level, with the burden of fear for one's own and their family's safety placed squarely upon African-Americans.

Unfortunately, this is just one of many examples of the pain caused by systemic injustices that are present every day. Take, for example, the disproportionate rates of death by COVID-19 among African-American, Latinx, and Indigenous peoples, or the discriminatory acts targeting individuals of Asian descent and foreign nationals from many countries in this pandemic. This adds to the already vulnerable experience of so many in our community, including but not limited to DACA students who are unsure about their future; individuals with disabilities who can feel invisible; LGBTQ+ individuals experiencing verbal and physical acts of violence; individuals subjected to intolerance based on their religious identity and beliefs; and people of color who are forced to constantly question if they can engage safely in routine activities like jogging or bird watching.

These events underscore the critical importance of our infusing diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in everything we do every single day. Not with mantra and platitudes, but with clearly articulated and tangible action that is supported by the University with budget and action. As scholars, educators, and colleagues, we are uniquely positioned to reflect, learn, and act.

We are committed to this work as UConn moves forward from some of its own recent struggles. We have a crucial new partner in these efforts with the recent hire of Dr. Frank Tuitt as our new Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer. We are all eager to work with him to sustain a culture that understands, respects, and appreciates differences, but also one that readily acknowledges our shortcomings and holds ourselves accountable for measurable progress at all times.

As he looks ahead to this new role, Frank shared the following: "I strongly believe that institutions like UConn should be at the center of creating spaces for students, faculty, and staff to imagine and invent ways to build more inclusive, affirming, and equitable institutions, organizations, and communities, and I look forward to doing my part to contribute to that collective effort."

We have communicated closely with him over the past several days, and we all will benefit from his leadership and expertise.

We have the opportunity to engage our entire community in the work that is needed, building upon continued advocacy and efforts of concerned faculty, staff, and administrators at UConn in collaboration with our cultural centers and our amazing undergraduate and graduate students who are willing to speak clearly and directly about their experiences. Change cannot be carried out by one person or one office alone. Too often the labor of this work is disproportionately undertaken by our most vulnerable, impacting their career progression, as well as their mental health and overall satisfaction with their work experience. This is a time when we can build momentum to share the responsibility across our entire community at our Storrs, UConn Health, Avery Point, Hartford, Stamford, Waterbury, and law school campuses.

We also have been extremely fortunate to benefit from the stewardship of Interim Chief Diversity Officer Dana Wilder. Building on strengths of the Office for Diversity and Inclusion, we are positioned as a national leader and a place where people of all identities feel they have a genuine opportunity for success and belonging. We encourage each of you to explore their website, which includes multiple resources including trainings and guides as well as information on events and cultural centers sponsored by their office.

There are no simple solutions or easy answers to solve the issues of injustice and prejudice in society and at our University. Of all of the various parts of our experience as administrators, this is the one area where we both feel like we have not done enough or met our own expectations. We do not experience that feeling as despair, but instead as a motivator to understand and accept our own privilege and the responsibilities that it brings to do more. We encourage our community to hold our entire leadership team accountable as we carry out that vital work together.

The challenge now is to remember this moment even if it fades from the headlines and to continue to strive for a society and a UConn that allows all to live safely and welcomed.

Sincerely,
Tom and Carl

Tom Katsouleas
President

Carl Lejuez
Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs
WE CAN DO BETTER AS A UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY
Photo by Kathy F. Atkinson June 04, 2020

A message from UD President Dennis Assanis
Editor's note: President Dennis Assanis shared this message with the University community on June 4.

Dear UD Community,

Our society is calling for equity and social justice. I hear you, and I am part of that call. We can do better as a University community. And we will do it together.

Over the past several days, many of you have written to me or posted your thoughts on social media to express your anger and frustration about the racial injustices that have been laid bare by the social unrest taking place in our nation. What’s more, I have been truly heartbroken to hear the stories of discrimination and prejudice that many of you have experienced, whether in our broader society or, unfortunately, here within our own community. It is so disturbing to see that some individuals do not grasp the insidious nature of racism and the very real pain caused by offensive and exclusionary language.

Every member of our community — students, faculty, and staff — is welcomed and valued at the University of Delaware. We must ensure that everyone is treated with respect and a sense of belonging. We should seek to find commonality, humanity, and civility to bridge our differences. We condemn the discriminatory and inflammatory words used by some members of our community. They do not reflect the University’s values. We are addressing each of these situations in accordance with the University’s conduct and non-discrimination policies.

Last week, the nationwide protests began as a response to the senseless deaths of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky — as well as the long list of other victims of discrimination and violence in American history. The global consciousness that has been reawakened by these tragedies must continue to advance our progress toward a society that is anti-racist and anti-hate. Education lies at the heart of this effort and is the key to real and lasting change.

Without a doubt, the University of Delaware can and must do more to expand diversity and promote inclusion and equity in our community. Since coming to UD, I have tried to face the challenges of history and culture that I see. Indeed, building inclusive excellence has always been personally important to me. While we have made strides in diversifying our faculty ranks and our student enrollment, there is clearly additional work to be done. I am committed — as is my administration — to redoubling our efforts to increase minority representation among our students, faculty and staff. But we know that the numbers are just one component of the equation. We must work ever harder to promote a more inclusive culture throughout UD where everyone is valued and all can expand their potential and believe in a better future.

To this end, I will be working closely with campus leaders to ensure progress and action around key needs of the University. Recognizing that these are both priorities and opportunities to take UD forward, we all need to take the following steps:

We need to build a more inclusive culture — Through education for all members of our community, we can cultivate a greater appreciation of the value of diverse peoples, cultures and perspectives. This is absolutely essential in modern society and directly supports our institutional mission to prepare our citizens to succeed. This semester we piloted an online diversity, equity, and inclusion education module. We will plan to require this training of all undergraduate and graduate students beginning in this upcoming academic year.
We need to listen and learn — We are planning a series of forums that will span the entire next academic year where all members of our community will have their voices heard and acknowledged. The input gathered at these forums will help inform our next steps as we continue to improve our campus climate with actionable initiatives. We are also mindful of those who have been silent, and we encourage them to come forward and share their stories, perspectives and ideas.
We need to act now — We will strengthen our collective awareness of and response to prejudice, diligently recruit underrepresented faculty and students, and raise funds for social justice initiatives on campus. We will also connect our campus-wide efforts and networks into a more robust agenda for larger impact.
We need to ensure accountability and operate effectively together as a united community — Everyone is responsible, and this needs to be enforced through renewed policies and practices using a framework where differences are respected and celebrated. We must also ensure that our campus climate and culture assessments are frequent and thorough, and that they reaffirm our commitment to improve the diversity and inclusion landscape at UD.
We have more to do — This list is not exhaustive, nor will it ever end. Our work to build a more equitable and inclusive society must be ongoing. We will remain committed to being open, to listening and to working together to make progress possible at UD. We not only welcome your active engagement; we need it. This is a call to action for everyone here now and with ties to UD.
There will be additional steps in the coming weeks and months. I welcome your input as we move forward. Please always feel free to reach out to Michael Vaughan, interim vice provost for diversity and inclusion, at vpd@udel.edu, or José-Luis Riera, vice president for student life, at studentdiversity@udel.edu.

This is an extraordinarily challenging time for all of us. I am inspired by the strength, the caring and the unshakable resolve of the University of Delaware community, and I ask you to join me in recommitting ourselves to ensuring that our institution continues to be a source of pride for all students, all faculty, all staff, all alumni … all people.

Sincerely,

Dennis Assanis, President


George Floyd was a member of our Third Ward community and we share in the tremendous pain our community is experiencing. Our thoughts are with his friends and family, Houston and the nation at large. We mourn with you.
June 4, 2020 | Let Us Reflect on this Day of Mourning
Dear University of Idaho Faculty, Staff and Students,

Today is a National Day of Mourning to respectfully recognize the death of George Floyd and the loss to his family as well as other lives lost. Words and actions matter, especially in times of national unrest and fearfulness, and especially from institutional leaders. They can calm or provoke, heal or hurt, and at their best, motivate meaningful change for good. The memo we sent out earlier this week regarding diversity and safety missed that last mark.

Asking that we treat each other with kindness and compassion was perceived by some as a request not to engage when we witness racism or injustice. That could not be further from what was intended. We must act against racism and injustice by addressing the change that needs to occur to create social equity.

So, today, in this moment of mourning, let me be more direct:

Black lives matter, and what happened to George Floyd and so, so many other African American and black citizens is abhorrent. No human being should ever have to fear for their life based solely on the color of their skin. The tragic fact is this is not a new phenomenon, but rather an all too frequent part of our national history.
There is no room for disagreement when it comes to basic human civil rights and crimes against humanity. We have a responsibility to engage and act when we see injustice. Truly, our future as a society depends on it.
We should be able to have a difficult conversation about race and equity issues and treat each other with civility and compassion … including on social media. This does not mean we tolerate or condone racism or hate crimes; it means that we are a place where people from all backgrounds should feel safe.
Listening — and truly hearing — the concerns of African American and black students, faculty, staff, and alumni, as well as other underrepresented communities, is critical to moving forward. Action toward lasting change matters as well. After campuswide discussions, we have adopted a diversity plan that we believe will help take action and address issues of social inequity. As Vandals, let’s work together and tackle these issues. It is the only way to realize the very best future for the community. Let’s take this National Day of Mourning to pay our respects to a life unjustly taken and work on our own reflection and racial reconciliation.

Scott Green
President

president@uidaho.edu
uidaho.edu/president
The anger, sadness, and fear felt by our community, and specifically Black communities across our nation, over the killing of George Floyd are justified. This is not a new phenomenon and the Black community is, we are sure, exhausted from the constant trauma and pain of being the recipients of mistreatment by those who are tasked with serving and protecting communities—the police.

There is also disappointment, frustration, and pain due to the continued disproportionate police brutality against people of color, specifically the Black community. These inequalities manifest themselves economically and socially. No one should feel their race or any aspect of their identity makes them a target for violence. Addressing inequality requires changing hearts, minds, and systems, and the University of Iowa will continue to work toward that goal through actions. To that end, we will release an update to our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Action Plan, which our community has developed, this coming week.

Over the past several days, the images from across our nation are difficult to comprehend and elicit a range of feelings. While we will engage with these emotions individually, and on our own timeline, one thing is clear—together we must act. Each of us must lead change within our individual communities to actively disrupt racism (interpersonal, systemic, and societal).

As you know, on our campus and within our community:

    We will not tolerate anything but a safe and inclusive campus for people of all backgrounds regardless of race, creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, religion, ancestry, or disability.
    We value the First Amendment and freedom of expression and believe civil discourse and the respectful exchange of ideas are the cornerstones of higher education and this great institution.

We are here to help. Many resources are available and we encourage you to reach out and ask for help.
We, the Chancellor and Provost of the University of Kansas, are emerging, as many of you are, from a week of heart wrenching conversations about the toxic impact that racism has on all of our communities. The deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and David McAtee, and the exchange between Amy Cooper and Christian Cooper in Central Park, are just recent and high-profile additions to innumerable immoral acts of racism to Black members of our communities.

The protests across the country, in the region, and in our cities over the past week and in Lawrence Sunday night are powerful statements of the depth of pain and anger that so many of our students, colleagues and friends are feeling. We have done a lot of listening over the past several days, and we recognize the disappointment that our earlier messages created. We hear our community members when you tell us you are broken-hearted and exhausted, and that it’s too much to bear.

We know that acts of racism and discrimination, in their many forms, happen in Lawrence and at KU, and on a regular basis. We are not free of the causes of this period of protest and unrest.

The egregious acts of racism and discrimination that have been targeted toward our Black community members do not stand in isolation. Members of Asian, LatinX, Muslim, immigrant and LGBTQIA communities are also targets of hate speech, discrimination, and racialized violence. Our community members who have disabilities and those who experience challenges with mental health are often stigmatized, abandoned, and suffer in silence. Members of our Black and Native communities have been disproportionately devastated by COVID-19, which is another fatal reminder of the systemic disparities in health outcomes, availability of financial support, and educational resources for so many of our most vulnerable community members.

Our hearts break with yours. We stand with you and for you.

It’s long past time for racism and discrimination to end. If we are to be on the side of social justice, we — meaning, we as leaders, KU as an institution, and each of us as community members — simply must do the work.

We all need KU to be a place that doesn’t replicate, tolerate or perpetuate racism, systematically, systemically, or individually. We know you are anxiously waiting and hoping that we can get past talking and hollow promises, and do something together in a different way that begins to make things better. You want us to hold ourselves to a higher standard, and we are ready to step up, to take responsibility, and to place KU at the forefront of social change.

In consultation and collaboration with leaders of our communities of color and marginalized groups, we begin today to engage in actions that move us to change:

    We will convene the leaders of our campus police, the City of Lawrence Police Department, the City Manager and the Mayor to discuss policing strategies that reinforce respectful and community-engaged policing, and to re-emphasize comprehensive police training that does not permit the kinds of acts that led to the death of George Floyd and so many others.
    We will bring together the leaders of our diversity councils to establish a university-level advisory council for equity and inclusion and commit to regular and continued outreach.
    We will charge leaders across campus to participate in training that will allow us to begin the work of facilitating intergroup dialogues that bring together representatives of agent groups and target groups to open up difficult conversations.
    We will partner with leaders in higher education and in the public and private sectors across the Greater Kansas City Region to engage in initiatives that immediately begin to address root causes in key areas that impact racial violence.
    We will ensure that improving equity, diversity and inclusion is explicitly stated as a goal for each team in our COVID-19 Design Challenge and in the longer term, in all of our Jayhawks Rising strategic doing activities.

Memorial Hall Mural: Our Past, Our Present and Why It's Time to Move Forward
By President Eli Capilouto Friday

LEXINGTON, Ky. (June 5, 2020) — On Friday, June 5, University of Kentucky President Eli Capilouto sent the following message to all students, faculty and staff:

 

I have not been able to get the images out of my mind. And the images should be — and will be forever — in my mind.

For eight minutes and 46 seconds, on a street in an American city in 2020, George Floyd was suffocated to death — a knee at his neck, gasps escaping from his mouth, as he pleaded for his life and for his mother.

I can't adequately articulate the horror and disturbing nature of those images to me. I don't have words to capture the mix of emotions — of anger and sadness, disbelief and nagging recognition that we have been here before — that have gnawed at me for days.

But I also know that I can't begin to feel how a Black man or woman or the parent of a Black child processes those images, either.

To every issue, we bring our curated experiences — funneled through the prism of our mind's eye — to an incident like this one or, for that matter, to a work of music, writing or art. Those sounds, images and narratives are necessarily interpreted with the context of a given moment by generations of people over the passage of time.

The simple truth is I can't walk in their shoes. I can't be in their skin. And I can't understand what intergenerational subjugation does to families who are its victims.

But I can try for greater understanding, a deeper sense of empathy and renewed resolve to contribute to healing, to do justice and to find reconciliation. As much as racism is a systemic stain on our country, so too, are we the inheritors of Dr. King's admonition that the moral arc of the universe ultimately bends toward justice. That is where I believe we find ourselves as a campus community today. We have not been immune from racial prejudice and hate, but I believe deeply that there is a commitment to doing better tomorrow than we are doing today.

It's against that imperfect and human backdrop that I am directing our facilities team to immediately begin the process of removing the mural in Memorial Hall.

Why now? And what does this move accomplish?

Just as certain images haunt me, I also cannot escape certain conversations that, over years, remain fresh.

To many, the mural represents the work of a renowned artist, seeking in her time, to represent the evolution, however halting, of her native state. And as with all art, we seek to understand the intent of the artist and bring our own meaning and interpretation to it.

I remember a conversation at Maxwell Place with 24 African American students in the fall of 2015. There, they detailed a list of recommendations that included "racist mural in Memorial Hall." There was a conversation with one student about the mural who stopped me cold with the observation that every time he walked into a class in Memorial Hall, he was forced to reckon with the fact that his forbears were enslaved.

They were chattel; brutalized as disposable property, even though in their time, they were regarded as essential to the economy's progress.

The art, to this student, sought to glorify and sanitize that fact. And he was speaking for many others, over many years, a point made clear again to me recently as we began conversations with our student leaders on how to move forward during this fraught time. The mural once again was a symbol, not of a state's evolution, but of our unwillingness to recognize their experiences as members of our community.

Memorial Hall of course, has its own important story — the story of the UK students and Kentuckians who laid down their lives during the Great War. It is a building constructed in honor of all Kentuckians — African Americans, Native Americans, and women alike — who gave their lives to preserve liberty. 

How do we reconcile those images as perceived now with that narrative?

To be sure, we have discussed the mural for many years and made a number of important, productive efforts to seek common ground and lasting solutions. But the spaces we have created for dialogue, and the work we have commissioned to expand conversation and contextualize art, haven't worked, frankly.

Our efforts and solutions with the mural, for many of our students, have been a roadblock to reconciliation, rather than a path toward healing. That's not a criticism. It is a statement of fact and, I hope, understanding.

We need to move forward. We have a lot of discussion that needs to take place on our campus. And those discussions cannot obviate the necessity of thoughtful, but decisive, action on a number of fronts.

I don't believe we can have that conversation with the mural still, metaphorically, on the table. And, so while in the context of many significant issues we must discuss and decide upon, the mural may appear relatively small, it carries with it tremendous symbolic weight.

I want to remove that weight from the discussions we must have, so that we can act, together, as a community. As we determine how we can move forward with removing the mural, I will communicate with the campus.

There is rarely a perfect solution to challenging issues. But it is the right one, I believe, for our campus at this moment and in the years to come.

Eli Capilouto

--

Media note: Downloadable videos and photo available at https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1BTRFI3FPfLd1tR9KRhmI1AjYRjIrACui?usp=sharing

The University of Kentucky is increasingly the first choice for students, faculty and staff to pursue their passions and their professional goals. In the last two years, Forbes has named UK among the best employers for diversity, and INSIGHT into Diversity recognized us as a Diversity Champion three years running. UK is ranked among the top 30 campuses in the nation for LGBTQ* inclusion and safety. UK has been judged a "Great College to Work for" two years in a row, and UK is among only 22 universities in the country on Forbes' list of "America's Best Employers."  We are ranked among the top 10 percent of public institutions for research expenditures — a tangible symbol of our breadth and depth as a university focused on discovery that changes lives and communities. And our patients know and appreciate the fact that UK HealthCare has been named the state's top hospital for four straight years. Accolades and honors are great. But they are more important for what they represent: the idea that creating a community of belonging and commitment to excellence is how we honor our mission to be not simply the University of Kentucky, but the University for Kentucky.
Message to the UIC Community
May 29, 2020

Dear Faculty, Staff and Students,

This week we saw yet another manifestation of the racism that remains in the fabric of our society. The killing of George Floyd in Minnesota, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky, along with other recent events, remind us again, though we don’t need reminding, how far we still have to go as a society to heal centuries of discrimination and achieve true equality.

We share your grief and outrage and we encourage you to continue to live the values of our university — to be inclusive, to treat each other with dignity and respect, and to provide a safe and supportive environment for each other.

At UIC, we are committed to addressing the deep systemic injustice of racism and advancing equity and inclusion for all people in Chicago, in the nation and around the world.  We are a community that values our differences, our diversity and our shared compassion for humanity. We will always strive to be one grounded in mutual understanding and respect.

If you need support coping with the disturbing events that occurred this week, we encourage you to use the many resources on campus available to support students, faculty and staff.

Sincerely,

Michael Amiridis
Chancellor

Susan Poser
Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs

Robert Barish
Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs

J. Rex Tolliver
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Print Friendly, PDF & Email
Contact
UIC News staff

uicnews-staff@uic.edu
          Reflecting on the events in Minneapolis and beyond
May 30, 2020 11:19 AM

Dear Students, Staff and Faculty,

We, along with so many, are struggling to fully comprehend the systemic violence and the actions of members of the Minneapolis Police Department that resulted in the death of George Floyd this week. This is the home of one of the members of our Big Ten university family and our thoughts are with our colleagues and the broader Minneapolis-St. Paul community today.

And while George Floyd is who we see and mourn this week, we have also witnessed the senseless deaths of Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor this spring.

We stand in the middle of a global health crisis that will claim hundreds of thousands of lives and burden millions of others for a generation to come. These are days when the health of our communities depends entirely on our collective commitment to care for one another. This is when we most need to come together.

It is painful to watch streets filled with more anger and more violence sparked by divisive sources of hatred that our nation seems unable to set aside even when we are all threatened by this virus that does not discriminate in choosing who it harms.

For some of us, this is very, very personal. But the grief, sadness and loss is profound and universal.

The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is a community committed to the scholarship, engagement, equity, inclusion and leadership that dismantles systems that utilize power, privilege and violence to disenfranchise, diminish and destroy.

And unfortunately, this same pandemic that has disrupted so much, also prevents us from coming together physically here at Illinois. We are not able to help each other process what we are seeing and what we are feeling in the way we would wish. So, today, when we cannot raise our voices together, we want to share this message in the hope that it will remind everyone that we do not have to remain silent alone.  

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery. Breonna Taylor. We can say their names and we can help ensure that they are not allowed to be forgotten.  

Sincerely,

Robert J. Jones
Chancellor

Barry Benson
Vice Chancellor for Advancement

Andreas C. Cangellaris
Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and Provost

Sean C. Garrick
Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Susan A. Martinis
Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation

Danita M. B. Young
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

 

          
                   
                  
This mailing approved by:
Office of the Chancellor

sent to:
Everyone
          
                   
 
Massmail Archive   •   Massmail powered by Webtools
 
Students lead the way toward reconciliation
Dr. Joseph Savoie -- Sun, 05/31/2020 - 2:23pm
Dear members of the University family,

George Floyd. Ahmaud Arbery. Breonna Taylor. Tony McDade. 

Their tragic deaths – and those of countless others – are reminders that our nation has much work to do to address discrimination, intolerance and other inexcusable barriers to social justice that have burdened us for far too long.

Universities are a place where that work can occur. Indeed, they are a place where it must occur.

It is the University’s responsibility to model principles of civility, respect and understanding for both its campus family and its wider community. Moreover, it is our duty to embody inclusivity and embrace diversity, and to educate others about their power.

Today, our students exemplified these ideals.

Members of the Student Action and Organizing Committee led a community dialogue on campus about the basic human right that all people – regardless of race, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation or ethnicity – have to live in freedom and security.

These students confronted the sadness, pain and outrage they feel about the events of the past week with clarity and thoughtfulness. They answered insular hate with the diverse voice of which this institution is so proud and from which we draw so much strength.

Our students demonstrated civic engagement and community leadership today, and I applaud them.

Moreover, they showed that the path to binding our nation’s wounds – no matter how deep, how historic and how painful – can be illuminated through conversation rather than violence.

Sincerely,

Dr. Joseph Savoie
President

UM denounces racism
Message from President David T. Barnard
JUNE 2, 2020 — 
 

Dear University Community,

Recent tragic deaths have caused immense suffering and anger as they represent a legacy of racism and police brutality against Black people. We are also witnessing alarming displays of racism against the Asian community in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic; and we recognize the interpersonal and systemic racism that is continually experienced by Indigenous Peoples.

On behalf of the University of Manitoba, I want to say clearly that we denounce racism in all its forms, we commit to solidarity with Black, Indigenous and/or People of Colour (BIPOC) and we commit ourselves to listen, to learn and to do better.

For those of us with privilege, it can be easy to ignore what’s happening, to say that it is not our problem or our story here in Canada. But silence represents ignorance and fear. We must be anti-racist. We must recognize white privilege, and that we exist in systems of white supremacy. We must remember that Canada was built on the lands of the Indigenous Peoples and on the backs of Black and Asian workers. We must join our voices to say enough is enough. 

Though I can never fully understand the experiences of racialized communities, I can commit to educating myself on their stories and histories and I encourage others to do the same. I call on our university community – united in our pursuit of knowledge – to research perspectives beyond our own, to learn the many ways that racism is enforced by our social structures, to seek out difficult truths and to acknowledge harms of the past and the present.

The University of Manitoba community believes in the inherent dignity of all people. We respect our differences, celebrate our commonalities, and are united in our mutual focus on intellectual achievement. We continue to strengthen alliances that are working to increase mutual understanding, respect and support.

Finally, to UM’s racialized students and colleagues, thank you for your strength and resilience. Thank you to those who take the time to educate your peers and colleagues and to speak your truth. Thank you for contributing to the strength of our institution.

We are sorry. Now, we must listen. We must learn. We must do better.

Sincerely,
David

To anyone who is looking for support during this time, please connect with Student Counselling Centre or Employee Assistance Program. If you have experienced discrimination while working or studying at UM, please contact our Office of Human Rights and Conflict Management. UM is also home to a number of groups who are leading crucial work to address racism, and promote diversity and inclusion. 
Statement by USM Leadership on Structural Racism and the Killing of George Floyd
Baltimore, Md. (May 29, 2020) – This week, George Floyd was killed in Minneapolis, a brutal act that recalled other recent killings of black Americans. We acknowledge with one voice the structural racism that’s taking the lives of our fellow citizens, and we stand in solidarity as we speak out against racism, anti-Semitism, sexism, discrimination against our LGBTQ and immigrant communities, religious intolerance, and bigotry of any kind.

We are justly saddened, angered, and frustrated by these acts of brutality and the lack of action when black men and women are killed. Mindful of public health guidelines, we also affirm the right of our communities to protest safely and peacefully to address their legitimate concerns.

We believe that public colleges and universities are obligated to help end inequity and to promote social justice. We draw on the leadership and wisdom of our students, faculty, and staff, many of whom confront these issues every day through their teaching, research, and activism.

We encourage all members of the USM community to seek support, if needed, and to involve themselves in addressing these challenges. We urge our students and colleagues not only to vote, but to help safeguard and improve our democracy.

In the days and weeks ahead, we will be listening to the voices of those who are too often silenced or ignored. When we gather together on campus once again, we will examine with greater resolve the racism and systemic inequities that so gravely endanger our minority communities. We are proud to be a part of a University System that believes in humanity, justice, and opportunity for all.

Please take care of yourselves, your families, and your communities during this difficult time.

Jay A. Perman, Chancellor, University System of Maryland

Aminta Breaux, President, Bowie State University
Anthony Jenkins, President, Coppin State University
Ronald Nowaczyk, President, Frostburg State University
Charles Wight, President, Salisbury University
Kim Schatzel, President, Towson University
Kurt Schmoke, President, University of Baltimore
Bruce E. Jarrell, Interim President, University of Maryland, Baltimore
Freeman A. Hrabowski III, President, University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Peter Goodwin, President, University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science
Wallace D. Loh, President University of Maryland, College Park
Heidi Anderson, President, University of Maryland Eastern Shore
Javier Miyares, President, University of Maryland Global Campus

Stewart Edelstein, Executive Director, Universities at Shady Grove
Mark Halsey, Executive Director, University System of Maryland at Hagerstown
Ben Latigo, Interim Executive Director, University System of Maryland at Southern Maryland


 
Contact: Mike Lurie
Phone: 301.445.2719
Email: mlurie@usmd.edu


Pines: Stand in Solidarity, Unite Against Injustice
President-designate Calls Acts of Violence Against Black Community Nationwide a ‘Stain’ Against UMD Values

By Maryland Today Staff  /  Jun 01, 2020

Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Email
Print this article
Campus aerial shot of Hornbake Library
President-designate Darryll J. Pines writes that the injustices against African Americans in the midst of a pandemic are a double blow to black and brown communities. "They cause additional pain and grief at a time when we are dealing with so many other challenges."
(Photo by John T. Consoli)

University of Maryland President-designate Darryll J. Pines sent the following email to the campus community this afternoon:

Dear University of Maryland Community:

On Wednesday morning, May 26, 2020, I woke up to go through my normal daily routine of getting prepared for the workday. But even before I could start my morning walk with my dog, my cellphone was already vibrating with texts and emails about something that had happened the evening before. Many colleagues, family members and friends had sent me links to the now-infamous video of yet another black man losing his life at the hands of law enforcement. This time, for allegedly using a counterfeit $20 bill at a local shop in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

I took a moment to click on the links and watch the more than nine-minute video of the last breath being sucked out of the body of Mr. George Floyd. As a black man, I screamed words that I cannot repeat here. As a father, I started to reflect on the safety of my son and daughter and on all the diverse communities who are negatively impacted by acts of injustice. I asked myself, what is wrong with our country when these incidents continue to happen time and time again?

In recent weeks we have again witnessed senseless acts of violence perpetrated against the black community. The tragic loss of lives—those of George Floyd in Minneapolis, and before that, the deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, Tony McDade and Sean Reed—due to racial violence is deeply saddening and a stain against the values that we personally hold, and that the University of Maryland, as an institution, cherishes.

The fact that these horrific acts have occurred in the midst of a pandemic is a double blow to black and brown communities. They cause additional pain and grief at a time when we are dealing with so many other challenges. But the shameful reality is that the virus has disproportionately affected communities of color. It has exposed the base inequities of our health care system and made painfully clear how those who have suffered so many other injustices for so long must also unequally bear the burden of this disease. These additional acts of racism and hatred bring into greater focus the injustices occurring in our nation.

The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., once said that:

"The ultimate measure of a man is not where one stands in moments of comfort and convenience but where one stands in times of challenge and controversy."

As a university community, we must not accept these latest incidents as inconsequential. We all must rise up and stand together to show our humanity to one another. We must remind ourselves of Dr. King’s words that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." Finally, we must heed the words of the late President John F. Kennedy, "what unites us is greater than what divides us."

Even though we are physically separated, now is the time to stand in solidarity and unite against any injustice.

Sincerely,

Darryll J. Pines
Glenn L. Martin Professor of Aerospace Engineering
President-Designate
University of Maryland

Tags:Campus & Community

Taking Action at UMass Amherst to Combat Racism: A Message from Nefertiti Walker, Interim Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
June 3, 2020
Dear Campus Community, 

Today, I write to you with a range of emotions. Fear for protesters, some of whom encounter fierce violence. Disappointment in our country for not reckoning with our intimate relationship with anti-Black racism. Frustrated at our institutions for failing to undo the institutionalized racism that we know to be true. 

For years, Black people and allies have been pleading for the end of racism and the violence that follows. Most recently, we cried out for change after the lost lives of Trayvon Martin, Tamir Rice, Michael Brown, Philando Castile, Eric Garner and Sandra Bland, and more recently Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and George Floyd. This list is not conclusive. This list is void of many lives lost to anti-Black racism, and countless other lives devastated by the omnipresence of our nation’s most pervasive disease, racism. 

We have been repeatedly challenged by this violence and by other disturbing acts – increased anti-Asian racism, growing xenophobia and escalating anti-Semitic attacks. This cannot, and will not, be our normal at UMass. We are hopeful and encouraged by the work we have been doing to combat racism and will continue to work tirelessly to undo it in our community. 

To that point, we are immediately getting to work with the following:

Respectful Workplace Training Series. In collaboration with the Office of Equity and Inclusion, Workplace Learning & Development and The Partnership for Worker Education, the purpose is to educate staff about resources available and supervisors (including faculty) on their responsibilities to ensure a university work environment grounded in antiracism, respect and inclusion.
Critical Incident Team. We are developing a triage team to respond consistently to critical campus issues and lead with humanity. More details to follow.
Campus Academy Initiative. The University of Massachusetts Police Department is applying for a team of campus and student leaders (including UMPD representation) to attend a three-day Campus Academy Initiative workshop in August 2020, offered by the Divided Community Project. The aim of the program is to immerse campus leaders in a curriculum aimed at strengthening and expanding campus-specific conflict-resolution capacity and practices. UMPD is committed to participating, as part of our community, in any training, seminar or effort to increase levels of understanding, prevention and responsiveness to critical issues like the ones we continue to see play out across our country.
Increased Data-driven Climate Assessments. We know that within our UMass community, we have micro cultures where people live – in their academic departments, classrooms and residence halls. We need to better understand these climates. Therefore, we will launch a series of assessments to measure and better understand the micro cultures that often impact our community most. This data will then be aggregated and live on the www.umass.edu/diversity website, providing transparency and the ability to inform the actions of the newly formed councils and task force below.
The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leadership Council. This council will convene immediately and be charged by the Chancellor and chaired by the Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. This group will meet regularly to assess, evaluate and advise about the university’s DEI policies and practices. Their meeting minutes will be uploaded to: www.umass.edu/diversity. 
The DEI Student Council. This will be co-chaired by the Senior Director of DEI  and the Assistant Chancellor of Advocacy, Inclusion and Support Programs. This group will meet with student DEI representatives to discuss and advance the most pressing student DEI issues. Similarly, their meeting minutes will be uploaded to: www.umass.edu/diversity.
The Task Force for Anti-racism. In response to the most recent anti-Black violence as well as the increase of other types of racism nationally, this group will be a collection of faculty, staff and students who will work to undo institutional racism in our community. They will be chaired or co-chaired by a combination of faculty, staff and students. More details to follow.
Finally, we will work with each major business unit on campus to set goals related to diversity (representation/under-representation), equity (access and opportunity), and inclusion (feeling welcome and sense of belonging). Leaders will be responsible for setting a culture of inclusion for all people in their area. Therefore, we will set and seek to meet DEI goals as they align with our campus strategic goal of inclusive excellence.

We encourage our students, staff and faculty to exercise their right to speak against the injustice they see in our society, and we implore you to join us in being part of the solutions. These resources will guide and support you in your quest for equity.

Racism, in its many forms, did not emerge overnight or in the past week. It has matured for hundreds of years. Therefore, it will take time and deliberate effort to confront. It will require intentional goal setting, data-informed decision making, and anti-racist action, to truly achieve our goal of inclusive excellence. 

Sincerely,

Nefertiti A. Walker, Ph.D.
Interim Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Chief Diversity Officer 
Driving Change and Reform Needed
Dear Faculty, Staff and Students:

Over the course of the past seven years, together our campus community has faced and overcome many difficult challenges. As we continue to grapple with COVID-19 and its harsh economic consequences, recent national events have revealed some ugly and enduring inequities in American society, sparking anxiety, upset and outrage. In a period of American history unclear and confused in direction and purpose, one thing is abundantly clear. We cannot solve problems we do not acknowledge. The pain and loss of this pandemic have not been evenly distributed in Memphis, in Tennessee, nor across the United States. The most vulnerable among us carry the majority of that burden. This pandemic has revealed decades-long and enduring economic and health-care inequities that cut along racial lines and are at the foundation of that vulnerability. That pain has only been magnified by recent hate-filled violence against African-American men.

As an institution of higher education in one of the most diverse communities in America, our University is committed to being part of the solution. We are a place of hope, healing and healthy debate. We have an identified set of core values that embrace fairness, equity and justice, and we are committed to living those on a daily basis, particularly when they are most needed. It is clear that Memphis needs us, and we are here to help. I will be reaching out to our campus to assist in facilitating the change and reform needed. I am proud to be a Memphian, and a part of a community that works together. Our University is committed to being a part of the solution and helping drive the change and reform needed.  

Regards, 

M. David Rudd, Ph.D., ABPP
President, University of Memphis
Distinguished University Professor of Psychology

Admissions

Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour
Academics

Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware
Athletics

gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media
Research

Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research
Support UofM

Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Administrative Support

President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology
Services
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation
UofM Global Explore Lambuth Campus
Follow UofM Online

Instagram
Facebook
twitter
Youtube
Linkedn
TNeCampus.info
Tennessee Transfer Pathway
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis
Important Notice
 Last Updated: 6/1/20
The University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000
The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.
We need to bring about change
May 29, 2020
I have watched and read in horror reports of the death of George Floyd in Minnesota. Many members of the University of Michigan community have reached out to me to express their heartache and anger that another unarmed African American has been killed by police, who have violated their duty to protect and serve.

I want to thank those of you who have shared your personal feelings on this tragedy. I know that your pain is very real and profound. Many members of our community are experiencing this tragedy in ways that are inseparable from their race and ethnicity – and in ways that I will never be able to fully and personally realize. For instance, our Chief Diversity Officer Robert Sellers has very poignantly written about his experiences today.

I condemn the actions that caused the tragic deaths of George Floyd, of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and of Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. There are far, far too many more examples of racism and violence against people of color from all across our nation, including in our surrounding community.

The reality and scope of this problem are pervasive. A 2018 study whose authors included U-M Institute for Social Research fellow Michael Esposito found that "the risk of being killed by police, relative to White men, is between 3.2 and 3.5 times higher for Black men." Thanks to U-M Political Science Prof. Christian Davenport, we know that the exercising of fundamental rights is treated differently, as "African American protest events are more likely to draw police presence, even when we control for the measures of behavioral threat."

At U-M, we must use our power to address major societal problems – especially those that diminish our society so tragically. This is clear in our mission.

Our mission is also why our work to enhance diversity, equity and inclusion must continue. The University of Michigan has a critical role to play and obligation to lead the kind of changes in our society that we all want to see. I know that our Division of Public Safety and Security is committed to being a continuing partner in this ongoing work. DEI will continue as a major focus of the institution throughout my presidency, beyond our initial five-year Strategic Plan. We must utilize our scholarship, the education and the engagement of our talented faculty, students, and staff to bring about change not only within the university, but also in our broader society. Our collective future depends on it.

During this difficult time, I urge anyone who needs support to access our university's resources.

Students on all three campuses can receive support through CAPS, the university's counseling and psychological services. All faculty and staff in Ann Arbor, Dearborn and Flint can access services through the Faculty and Staff Counseling and Consultation Office. Michigan Medicine faculty and staff can access resources through Office of Counseling and Workplace Resilience.
Skip to navigationSkip to content
Committees
Chancellor Appearance Request
Contact
Office of the Chancellor
University of Missouri

About Planning Inside Mizzou Remarks & Presentations Distinguished Leaders Lecture
June 4, 2020: Tigers leading change
Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Alumni,

Over the last several days, we have seen an outpouring of support for those who have faced racism, both in our community and throughout the country.

University leaders and I have sent notes in recent days voicing our sorrow over the recent injustices and tragic deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor. We have vowed to do more as we have met with numerous black students, staff and faculty who have described the immense toll that systemic discrimination and racism has taken on their confidence in justice, on their mental health and on their hope that true change will ever happen.

We have been watching closely the social media thread #BlackatMizzou on Twitter and Instagram since it began earlier this week and are listening to powerful testimonies from our previous and current students featured there. I can tell you my heart has been rocked by this experience as have many others, and those who shared these posts should know their experiences are valued and have not been ignored.

Each tweet is a sobering reminder of the ugliness many of you have faced. I have been discussing these comments with our deans, faculty and university leaders, and we are learning from the common themes shared while also looking into some specific cases mentioned. These stories of name calling, racist assumptions and lack of response to injustice illustrate to me that our work is far from done related to inclusion, diversity and equity. I wish I could have been there each time these incidents occurred to call out the perpetrators, to hold them accountable and to support those who’ve been affected. But, that’s not possible. So, I call upon each one of us to take the stand to confront discrimination when it happens and to provide care and compassion to those who have suffered from it.

Mizzou continues to be committed to creating an inclusive community where everyone can live, learn and work in an environment that supports and celebrates each individual. I am grateful to our many students, faculty and staff who have worked tirelessly for change at Mizzou. I assure you that we will not stop pressing, and we will strive to spread the responsibility from those who have shouldered the brunt of the work to the larger community. Over the last several years we have done a lot of planning and created some progress and action. We all must do more.

Our community must address this important work together. Some are asking for details of our progress in recent years. To that end, we are organizing community conversations soon to discuss what we have been doing and how we can build on that foundation for a better Mizzou. We will share details in the coming weeks.

On behalf of the faculty, department chairs, deans, provost and the staff, I confirm that we will take important positive actions.

We know our Tiger family will lead change.

Mun Y. Choi, Ph.D.

UM System President and interim MU Chancellor

University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211
573-882-2121

© 2020 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution.

Skip to navigationSkip to content
Committees
Chancellor Appearance Request
Contact
Office of the Chancellor
University of Missouri

About Planning Inside Mizzou Remarks & Presentations Distinguished Leaders Lecture
June 4, 2020: Tigers leading change
Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Alumni,

Over the last several days, we have seen an outpouring of support for those who have faced racism, both in our community and throughout the country.

University leaders and I have sent notes in recent days voicing our sorrow over the recent injustices and tragic deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor. We have vowed to do more as we have met with numerous black students, staff and faculty who have described the immense toll that systemic discrimination and racism has taken on their confidence in justice, on their mental health and on their hope that true change will ever happen.

We have been watching closely the social media thread #BlackatMizzou on Twitter and Instagram since it began earlier this week and are listening to powerful testimonies from our previous and current students featured there. I can tell you my heart has been rocked by this experience as have many others, and those who shared these posts should know their experiences are valued and have not been ignored.

Each tweet is a sobering reminder of the ugliness many of you have faced. I have been discussing these comments with our deans, faculty and university leaders, and we are learning from the common themes shared while also looking into some specific cases mentioned. These stories of name calling, racist assumptions and lack of response to injustice illustrate to me that our work is far from done related to inclusion, diversity and equity. I wish I could have been there each time these incidents occurred to call out the perpetrators, to hold them accountable and to support those who’ve been affected. But, that’s not possible. So, I call upon each one of us to take the stand to confront discrimination when it happens and to provide care and compassion to those who have suffered from it.

Mizzou continues to be committed to creating an inclusive community where everyone can live, learn and work in an environment that supports and celebrates each individual. I am grateful to our many students, faculty and staff who have worked tirelessly for change at Mizzou. I assure you that we will not stop pressing, and we will strive to spread the responsibility from those who have shouldered the brunt of the work to the larger community. Over the last several years we have done a lot of planning and created some progress and action. We all must do more.

Our community must address this important work together. Some are asking for details of our progress in recent years. To that end, we are organizing community conversations soon to discuss what we have been doing and how we can build on that foundation for a better Mizzou. We will share details in the coming weeks.

On behalf of the faculty, department chairs, deans, provost and the staff, I confirm that we will take important positive actions.

We know our Tiger family will lead change.

Mun Y. Choi, Ph.D.

UM System President and interim MU Chancellor

University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211
573-882-2121

© 2020 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution.

Chancellor Green: 'Racism in any form is wrong and has no place in our lives'
Nebraska students hand out "Hate Will Never Win" T-shirts in the Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center before a campus rally in February 2018.
Craig Chandler | University Communication
Nebraska students hand out "Hate Will Never Win" T-shirts in the Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center before a campus rally in February 2018
Editor's Note — Chancellor Ronnie Green was among higher education leaders who responded to the national protests spurred by the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. The chancellor's message, which is below, was released May 30 via his Twitter account to connect immediately with students, faculty, staff and the broader community.

Chancellor Ronnie Green delivers his third State of the University address on Jan. 15. The speech examined the university's 150-year history and charted a course to 2025 and beyond.
Craig Chandler | University Communication
Chancellor Ronnie Green
Jane and I are sickened by the horrific injustice in Minneapolis, and the other forms of injustice that we know we don't see first-hand. Our hearts ache for the senseless loss of George Floyd and his family — and too many others.

Racism in any form is wrong and has no place in our lives, our communities, or institutions. Yet it remains.

Those of us entrusted to leading institutions must stay committed to truly listening, truly learning and to understanding our own bias. We need to encourage honest conversations, big and small, that can help bridge this divide and address deeply embedded histories of exclusion.

I hope and continue to believe that higher education, particularly institutions focused on access, can play a positive role in these conversations.

Review the chancellor's message and responses it received on Twitter.
A message of solidarity from UNLV President Marta Meana
MAY. 31, 2020
Dear colleagues and students,

It is with a heavy heart that I reach out to you in light of the appalling death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis Police. This is just the last in a far too long list of similar atrocities and there is only so much we can bear.

UNLV stands in solidarity with our African American faculty, staff, and students in denouncing this heinous act, in expecting accountability, and in demanding systemic change. The distress that this has caused in our community runs wide and deep. Racism is a far greater long-term threat to this country of ours than any virus. We need to confront it head on and together.

Universities have a responsibility to be beacons in the journey out of this unacceptable state of affairs. Let us double down on our efforts. We need to do this for each other. We need to do this for ourselves.

With sadness and hope,

Marta Meana, Ph.D.
UNLV President
I can’t breathe—again

As we gathered our thoughts at having to address, once again, the reality of the brutal death of an unarmed black man, George Floyd, we must categorically condemn the racism, abuse of power and brutality that led to his death. Mr. Floyd, who pleaded repeatedly for his life—I can’t breathe—eerily evocative of the equally violent death of Eric Garner and so many other black lives, is yet another deeply troubling lost life that ought to serve as a day of reckoning for all of us. As a nation, not only have we not resolved the historically deep wounds of structural racism, inequality, injustice and violence in our country, but those divisions, dramatically intensified in recent times, significantly challenge our democracy. We know from extensive evidence that hate and racial violence have increased to frightening levels in recent years. Let us also bear witness to the fact that in a few months we will be marking the one year anniversary of the El Paso mass killings, one of the deadliest anti-Latino and anti-emigrant hate crimes of recent years; a year ago, also, the shooting in the Poway synagogue took place; increasing attacks on mosques, and many others. These sobering realities must continue guiding our educational mandate on equity and inclusion through meaningful collaborations and much needed healing. Our deepest sense of solidarity to the family of Mr. George Floyd. Our particular support goes out to our Black students, faculty and staff in these somber moments.

Sincerely,

Marc A. Johnson
President
and
Eloisa Gordon-Mora
University Diversity and Inclusion Officer
President, Provost call for focus on core values in wake of George Floyd's death Minneapolis
June 1, 2020

Dear UNH Community,

Like virtually all Americans, we reacted with horror at the recent death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. This was particularly painful coming on the heels of the shooting of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. While the circumstances of these deaths were different, they all underscore the risks to black people interacting with police or simply going about their daily lives (as was demonstrated vividly by what happened to Christian Cooper in New York City). It is beyond belief that more than 50 years after the passage of the Civil Rights Act, nearly 30 years after Rodney King’s beating, six years after the shooting of Michael Brown and the choking death of Eric Garner, tragedies like this continue to occur. It is clear that, as former President Obama said in a recent statement, "If we want our children to grow up in a nation that lives up to its highest ideals, we can and must do better." Our hearts go out to our African American students, faculty, staff and alumni who are particularly affected by these events.

What is the responsibility of a public university like the University of New Hampshire in this situation? We have an obligation to fight ignorance, intolerance and bias, and to teach equality, respect and kindness—these are core values at UNH . The university is where we tackle societal challenges and work together to find solutions. This is founded on our mission to support the bedrock American principle that we are all created equal, and that all of us, regardless of any differences, should enjoy equal rights, opportunities and freedoms. It is fair to say that this passion for freedom is particularly acute in New Hampshire. We must ensure that our students and the whole UNH community deeply understand this shared commitment to our fellow citizens, to better understand when it has been violated. Our recent climate survey revealed that we have our own work to do in this area, which we will continue to do.

We cannot remain silent in the face of the trauma that these events inflict on marginalized communities across the country. We are united in our rejection of hate and intolerance, and call upon all in our community to support each other and those who are surely feeling the weight of these events. We all must renew our commitment to providing a safe and inclusive environment for everyone at UNH, including in interactions with UNH and Durham police. UNH Police Chief Paul Dean has worked extensively to build strong positive relationships with underrepresented students and has provided direction and training to his officers to do the same. Durham Police Chief Dave Kurz has done this as well.

As a research university, we also have the responsibility to address significant national issues. We will conduct a review of our research portfolio and look for opportunities to stimulate and support research on this important national problem. We hope that research can help us to identify practical steps that can be taken to protect the well-being and safety of all Americans while also improving our own racial understanding.

In the coming weeks, we will be meeting with and creating opportunities for faculty, staff and students to come together and share their input and guidance on responding to this challenge. Even in the face of the pandemic and the need to work and learn remotely, we must not lose sight of the importance of all aspects of our mission. In the aftermath of experiencing or witnessing trauma, it is normal to experience a range of feelings and emotions, such as shock, fear, sadness, anger, helplessness or guilt. For those members of our community who are feeling the trauma of this most acutely, we want to remind you that services continue to be available including: Psychological and Counseling Services (PACS); the Beauregard Center (formerly OMSA); Health and Wellness; and the Office of Community Equity and Diversity.

This is in so many ways a challenging time in America, but we as a people have risen to challenges before, and we will find ways to meet this one. We will be in touch with more detail on opportunities for education, research and conversation soon. In the meantime, our wish for all of you is health and safety.

James W. Dean, Jr.
President

Wayne Jones
Vice President and Provost
Leaders at The University of New Mexico have issued strong statements
condemning the brutal killing of George Floyd by police officers in Minnesota
on Memorial Day and the actions of those seeking to prompt further violence at
ensuing protests.
"Watching what is happening across our nation, I join the many voices who are
outraged and condemn not only the actions of the officers who killed George
Floyd, but police brutality against any and all communities of color," said UNM
President Garnett S. Stokes.
Following reports that extremist groups were using civil protests against police
brutality to further elicit violence, President Stokes stated that "peaceful protest
is a healthy way for people to express the hurt, fear and anger these types of
actions incite." She went on to say, "It is abhorrent that white nationalist groups
are taking cover behind legitimate national protests concerning George Floyd and
police brutality to provoke violence against black businesses and society at large."
UNM Police Chief Kevin McCabe issued the
following statement:
"What transpired in Minneapolis this past Memorial Day was appalling and
disgusting – in my opinion, this does not represent American law enforcement and
those who committed this heinous act or stood by and did nothing to intervene
lack the humanity, integrity, and honor to wear the badge of a police officer.
Their senseless actions have stained every professional law enforcement officer
who swore an oath to protect and defend the communities they serve but it is
also a clear call for all of us to stand against this type of abuse of power.
As a police chief, to see this type of brutality makes me sick but I am confident
that justice will prevail in this case. I, along with every member of The University
of New Mexico Police Department, not only strive to do our very best every day
to protect and serve those within our community but also be examples of police
officers that our community expects and deserves."
May 30, 2020
ALL UNIVERSITY MESSAGE
Message from campus leaders on events in Minneapolis
Carolina is committed to fostering an environment whereby the personal rights, lives and dignity of every member of our community matters.

Posted by University Communications, Saturday, May 30th, 2020
Bell Tower
The UNC Bell Tower on the campus of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill October 6, 2016. (Photo by Jon Gardiner/UNC-Chapel Hill)
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Pinterest
Share via Email
Print Friendly
Like so many of you, we have seen the recent events in Minneapolis where George Floyd, an unarmed Black man, died while in the custody of police officers. We denounce the actions of the police officers and support the decision to hold those responsible accountable.

This incident comes on the heels of similar acts of violence against Black people across the country. As we struggle to comprehend these events, we share your sadness, grief and frustration, and recognize the pain the recurrence of such senseless acts of violence and racism causes for so many members of our community. We add our voices to those calling for transparency and accountability.  

We are committed to fostering an environment whereby the personal rights, lives and dignity of every member of our university community matters. The events of this week underscore the important work of our Campus Safety Commission,and we are grateful for their continued efforts and collaborations with campus leadership.   

As we build our community together, even while many of us are apart, we hope that we all take some time to check in on each other. Next week, the University Office for Diversity and Inclusion, which seeks to unite our Carolina community and foster a sense of belonging and safety for all, will offer a space on its website for #YourVoiceMatters, where you may share your thoughts, perspectives and feelings anonymously. We hope you will participate.  

We recognize the stress these events cause members of our community, especially the Black community, and encourage anyone needing help to utilize the following  available resources. For students, you can contact the Office of the Dean of Students or Counseling and Psychological Services.  The Employee Assistance Program is available for faculty and staff.  

In solidarity and with unwavering resolve, 

Kevin M. Guskiewicz
Chancellor  

Robert A. Blouin
Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost 

Sibby Anderson Thompkins 
Special Assistant to the Chancellor and Provost
Interim Chief Diversity Officer 

George Battle
Vice Chancellor for Institutional Integrity and Risk Management 

David Perry
Associate Vice Chancellor and Chief of UNC Police 
Saturday, May 30, 2020
Dear Niner Nation,

Like so many of you and others around the nation, I was heartbroken by George Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on Monday night and the horrifying video of his final moments. The recent killings of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery are further examples of the systemic racial injustice that continues to plague our country.

I want to acknowledge the pain, trauma, and frustration that many of our students, faculty, and staff are feeling. These events have a powerful and personal impact on members of our community. Last night in Charlotte, we witnessed the community's unrest in response to the death of George Floyd as many people organized in protest of the ongoing racism against the Black community. 

I join with others to ask: What can I do? What can we do as a University that is committed to creating an equitable and safe environment for our students, faculty, and staff in one of the most diverse and vibrant urban cities in America?

As a community of educators and scholars, we hold a special responsibility to raise our voices to condemn the violence against Black people, other people of color, and other historically marginalized identities. It is up to us to lead, modeling civility, respect, and holding true to the values of diversity and inclusion that ensure all members of our community will thrive. At UNC Charlotte, I want us to question why incidents such as these occur, and what role we can play in creating an equitable and just world. We cannot accept apathy or indifference or silence; otherwise, we allow hatred, prejudice, and intolerance to grow.

One of the many special qualities of Niner Nation is the rich diversity of our community, feedback we consistently hear from students about why they love this University. For our African-American students, faculty, and staff, know that your Niner Nation family is here to support you. We always want to ensure that everyone feels welcome on campus, and that we are consistently providing a safe and inclusive environment.

If you need support during this time, please do not hesitate to reach out to the resources available to you. 

Counseling services are available to faculty and staff through the Employee Assistance Program and to students through the Christine F. Price Center for Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). These services will continue throughout the summer. Our Office of Identity, Equity and Engagement staff members are also available to support members of our community.  

The Counseling and Psychological Services Center is hosting a student-centered Healing and Empowerment Gathering on WebEx to develop self-care, coping strategies, and connection for Black students who have been impacted by racial injustice from 2 p.m. - 3:30 p.m., Thursday, June 4. You may register here. 

Unfortunately, as we know all too well, racism and bigotry will not end overnight. But we will never create a community and world where everyone is equally valued and protected unless we speak out, show up, and advocate for the rights of all.

Sincerely,

Chancellor Philip L. Dubois
Philip L. Dubois
Chancellor
We Must Stand Together – An Official Notice from the President
Monday, June 1, 2020

Dear UNT faculty and staff,

We are all deeply disturbed and saddened by the tragic events that led to the murder of George Floyd. Once again, we ask why an unarmed black man was killed by a police officer while colleagues looked on without intervening. People of color and white allies everywhere in our country have shown their shock and outrage through protests, and the collective rage people feel has led to more violent actions while we wait for answers. But no answers have been given. 

Thoughtful people everywhere want to see justice and racial equity, and we all hope and pray for an end to the bitter institutional racism to which we all bear witness. While there have been cries of condemnation for these horrific events, there has not been a cohesive national dialogue, and I fear the violent reactions we see are creating yet deeper divides. 

For some of our community members, these events feel all too familiar and there is concern that this could happen to them. Here in Denton, and at UNT, we are not immune to the challenges that the Black Community and law enforcement are facing. A former Black student was stopped at night last week by our campus police for not having a safety light on his bike. After our police confirmed that he had an outstanding warrant, this young man attempted to flee and was arrested after a brief struggle. This is an all too common scene in modern America and calls for all of us to do better as we negotiate the nexus of law enforcement and fear. 

In the fog of peaceful protests and with cities in flames, most of us are isolated from our normal campus connections and, lacking normal dialogue, we respond by listening to emotionally charged and often inaccurate social media. We take sides, and it becomes so easy to "like"or comment in ways that dehumanize those whose views don't match our own.

Before the COVID-19 crisis, we started to take a harder look at our culture, and the impact of discrimination and racism on our campus. That dialogue, and the healthy response to becoming a more intentionally inclusive campus, largely stopped as we took on yet another crisis. Today, I am calling on everyone in our community to show our caring and compassionate values. It is a time to come together – to listen – and to have the difficult and uncomfortable conversations we need to become the inclusive and caring community we aspire to be.

This week, I am inviting our community to rekindle these discussions. Our university will host two Black Lives Matter President's Virtual Town Halls with the first one set for students from 2 to 3:30 p.m. Friday, June 5. The second one is for faculty and staff and will be hosted from 2 to 3:30 p.m. Monday, June 8. The discussions will be framed around the three questions: How are we feeling? How does this relate to my experience at UNT? How can we move forward? Community members can ask questions during the event or send me questions in advance to untpresident@unt.edu.

As a higher education community, we want peace and racial justice as we continue honestly reckoning with our past. I hope you will join me and other campus leaders in this critical conversation that will help us return to campus as a stronger, more united community that celebrates our diversity, caring nature and commitment to a community where everyone feels equally valued.

Respectfully,

Neal Smatresk
UNT President
George Floyd’s tragic death cries out for justice and a recommitment to fight racism. Recalling the image of Father Hesburgh and Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. locked hand-in-hand in 1964, we pray, on this Feast of Pentecost: Come, Holy Spirit, inspire us to work for justice, solidarity and a healing of divisions." 
May 31, 2020

Ninety-nine years ago today, blood began to flow down Black Wall Street and the Tulsa Race Massacre ensued, marking one of the most tragic events in the history of our state and nation. And now, nearly a century later, we continue to live with the same violence and vitriol. The recent killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and George Floyd are stark examples of black lives lost due to senseless brutality. We know that racism in all of its forms, explicit and implicit, is never more unfair than when it leads to the needless loss of a life. To become the country we know we can be, we must honestly address the issues that underlie these societal divisions and make real, systemic change. I urge our entire OU family to lend support, advocacy, and love to the marginalized black members of our own community. Together, we are stronger.

Joseph Harroz, Jr.
President  
Recognize today’s challenges; provide comfort and care
June 1, 2020

Colleagues, 

If anything is certain in these very uncertain times, it’s that racism exists in our society.

So what does one say when it seems like there might not be anything one can do to immediately fix things? Under normal circumstances, we might hold one another or offer words of encouragement, anything to show that we care. We would be present with one another. Yet, we are denied that at this moment because of the COVID-19 pandemic.

A collection of recent events – from the newly launched investigation into the slaying of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia to the black birdwatcher in Central Park who was threatened by a white woman to the brutal killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis – have left many of us feeling hopeless, scared, and exhausted.

My request here is that we all, faculty in particular, provide extra flexibility for members of the community who are at their limit because of the ongoing inequities involving so many others. That these challenges around race are occurring in the face of the challenges we are seeing from the pandemic makes it even worse. It is OK to acknowledge our exhaustion, as the coronavirus has pushed our community hard, and we have risen to the occasion beyond what nearly anyone could have imagined.

We are exhausted, but we are resilient, and we are getting there. But the circumstances of the last few days, as well as the general climate around race and justice over the preceding years, decades, and indeed centuries brings into bright relief the continuing inequities within our society. The civil unrest around the George Floyd killing has ripped open the wounds and threatened to grind our exhaustion into despair.

What words can I offer to ameliorate these feelings? None that can authentically speak to the true feelings that only the lived experience of the individual can truly validate. Our faculty, staff, and students of color – particularly our black students – are feeling scared, angry, and they are questioning what the world is doing to address injustice.

Not enough. Never enough.

We each sit with our own thoughts at this moment. We cannot hug each other when we need it most. But what we can do is acknowledge that we are going through this together, and that we must support each other as we can. But we must also recognize that different members of the community will be suffering more than others, and we must recognize that that suffering is born from each individual’s experience and life path.

So, as we bring this term to a close, I request that all faculty recognize that students may be going through a particularly tough period that makes it difficult for them to focus on their schoolwork. As you know, we have already instituted a flexible pass/no-pass structure for all students in all courses. This should provide students with flexibility and solace as they finish out their work. However, I also ask all faculty to be very open if a student requests that they might need a little more time to finish off an assignment that is due this week and to do so without question.

Let’s also make sure we accommodate and care for each other. Our work this spring has required an unprecedented level of flexibility and generosity of spirit. I am very grateful for everyone’s hard work in making that generosity a hallmark of the UO community. Indeed, I sense that we have always felt it as one of our core principles. But now we can be assured that it is a rock upon which we will continue to mount a response to each and every challenge—and a rapidly changing world—together.

Sincerely,

Patrick Phillips
Provost and Senior Vice President
Statement on the death of George Floyd
May 30, 2020
Amy Gutmann, President

Once again our nation mourns. The tragic and senseless death of George Floyd is a vivid reminder of the inequalities and unacceptable indignities that so many of our citizens constantly endure. The events in Minneapolis this week should lead everyone to recognize how much more work our society must do to realize liberty and justice for all. As a nation we have much work to do.

While the entire Penn community weeps, and our hearts are filled with sadness for this senseless loss of life, we should remember the importance of Penn’s commitment to doing our part to create a more inclusive and mutually respectful environment and society free from discrimination and deprivation.

I especially want Penn’s African American students, faculty, and staff to know how much they and their contributions to our community are treasured. It is particularly important at this difficult time that Penn’s students of color know their University supports them, which we unequivocally do. While we may be apart physically at this point in time, we are truly together in spirit.

We all long for the day when we never again bear witness to such a needless death. Our prayers are for the Floyd family, and for a healing of our nation’s soul. Let all of us in the Penn community use this moment to recommit, from the deepest corners of our hearts, to creating a living and learning environment that is truly safe and welcoming for all.
Statement on Racial Injustice and the Death of George Floyd
June 2, 2020
Dear Members of the University Community: 

It is impossible to forget the image of George Floyd, gasping for air as a police officer who is sworn to protect and defend calmly kneels on his neck until he dies. It is both a shocking scene of violence that should never happen and a potent reminder that it continues to happen all the time.

The painful truth is that persistent and systemic racism continues to fuel a deep injustice toward African Americans. The familiarity of this tragedy has ignited widespread protests and demonstrations—not only across our country, but across the globe.

We are outraged because it is outrageous. How many times must we witness these blatant examples of injustice, hatred, brutality and discrimination before we resolve to change things?  

This is a time for demonstrating solidarity with our African American community. To the University of Pittsburgh’s African American students, faculty, staff and alumni: We stand with you in demanding better and are committed to working with you to make meaningful changes.    

Unfortunately, grief and anger are emotions too easily exploited. Some are happy to create confusion, sow conflict and incite violence and ultimately erode our fundamental rights to peaceably gather and demand real change. This, too, is a painfully familiar pattern. Against a rising toll of injury, death and recrimination, we stand to lose our solidarity—replacing it with ever-deepening divisions.  

Do we have to go down this road?

In this moment of raw grief and anger, we must plot a path forward. We must find ways to build bridges, listen and empathize—even when it is uncomfortable. And we must demand better of our leaders, holding them accountable by voting and pushing to reform the laws and institutions of our democracy. Working together, we have enormous power to realize change.

But this is also a time to turn the lens inward and consider our institution’s own role in perpetuating unfair structures and systems. A university is not an ivory tower but an extension of society—a place dedicated to advancing knowledge for everyone’s gain. Racism degrades our pursuit of true equality, liberty and justice, and it undermines our ability to create opportunity through teaching, research and service. Our university must become a better, more equitable place, and we can do more.

These local efforts may seem like small acts in the face of a national civil crisis, but they can catalyze powerful change. The University of Pittsburgh is a longstanding leader in our region. Yet, for all of our remarkable accomplishments, African Americans living within the Cathedral of Learning’s shadow are still confronting an alarming opportunity gap. We can expand our efforts to translate our work into practice and spur a local renaissance in our surrounding neighborhoods and communities.

Reshaping our university to be more diverse, inclusive and just—while also expanding our reach and impact in promoting social justice—is a significant effort, and we will need to resource and sustain this transformation over time. Because of this, I am putting our nearly complete strategic planning process—which aims to chart Pitt’s course over the next five years—on hold. This pause will give us time to incorporate specific strategies to strengthen our commitments to racial equity and justice. I will need your help in identifying the most promising initiatives in this final plan, and I hope you will participate.  

To jumpstart this work, we are scheduling and planning a number of opportunities to convene virtually so that we can share ideas, experiences and expertise related to eliminating racism and injustice near and far. In the days ahead, we must continue to stand in solidarity as we work to forge a better, more equitable future for all.  

Respectfully, 

Patrick Gallagher
Black Lives Matter: A GSO Perspective
Aerial view of the URI Narragansett Bay Campus
June 4, 2020
A statement from URI Graduate School of Oceanography Dean Bruce Corliss.
I am writing to follow up my statement last week in On the Waterfront should you not have had the opportunity to read it. The senseless death of George Floyd has created despair and anger across the country and, as the URI Senior Leadership Team stated in a recent email, is a reminder of the oppression and injustice still too prevalent in our society. The Graduate School of Oceanography and the University of Rhode Island are committed to a more just and equitable society and university community. I write to re-confirm that commitment to promote and respect diversity and justice for all within our campus and within the nation as we struggle to address systemic problems within our society and across the country.

The death of George Floyd and long-standing anti-black racism, together with a lack of progress to address the roots of these crimes, have led to frustration and anger generated by police brutality, racial injustice and a culture among some that condones violence. This anger is also based on societal and structural racism that has pervaded the fabric of America. Societal racism includes inequalities in income/wealth distribution, availability of health care and affordable health insurance, and educational opportunities, and is perpetuated not only by individuals and institutions, but by lawmakers passing legislation that precludes or limits opportunity to minority communities and, in particular, to Black Americans. Politics matter. These societal and financial inequities have existed for a very long time, and the lack of progress to address these inequities is at the core of the problem that the country faces today.

GSO has actively made efforts to attract minority faculty and students in general, and specifically African Americans, to join GSO and will continue to do so. In addition, professional societies have fostered and reinforced the need to increase underrepresented minorities in the sciences, and in particular Black Americans. But, clearly we as an institution and a discipline must hold ourselves accountable and do better. It is time to reflect upon and then redouble our efforts to ensure that current and prospective faculty, students and staff of color feel that they belong and are supported.

The GSO faculty voted last year to remove the GRE test requirement in graduate applications, as this has been shown to be a bias against minority students. This year a NOAA proposal was submitted to recruit and provide support to summer students from the University of Maryland Eastern Shore, a Historically Black College and University (HBCU), as part of our CINAR effort, an effort that follows a commitment we made last year when we submitted the Cooperative Institute proposal. We also reached out this year to another HBCU institution, Elizabeth City University in North Carolina, to inquire about their possible interest in joining the East Coast Oceanographic Consortium with the goal of developing a pipeline of underrepresented students at GSO and other ECOC institutions. In an effort to increase the diversity of future oceanographers, GSO’s NSF-REU program (SURFO) is committed to recruiting students from underrepresented groups. Recruiting at HBCUs and Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs), attending conferences focused on scientists from underrepresented groups (SACNAS) and forming a partnership with the Puerto Rico Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation have begun to effect change. Last summer, half of our SURFO student participants were from underrepresented groups. We look forward to next week when a new cohort begins, with almost half the young scientists from underrepresented groups. 

These efforts do not address the inequities and injustices that presently exist with structural racism in America, but are examples of our commitment to recruit and welcome Black students, students of color and other minorities to oceanography with the goal of promoting equity within the science community.

This is the time to address questions of inequity, justice and the rights of all individuals in our society. It is a time for reflection and for discussion, but it is also a time to develop and execute plans to address these issues. Recognizing that the scarcity of Black oceanographers is a result of an unjust K-12 educational system, a key goal of GSO’s outreach efforts is to prioritize access for underrepresented communities to ocean science. GSO will continue to spark partnerships with under-resourced schools throughout Rhode Island and minority serving institutions across the country. We are emboldened to strengthen these efforts.

As part of that effort, GSO will help make meaningful partnerships with minority serving institutions within the East Coast Oceanographic Consortium to develop opportunities for Black and minority students. This summer, we will also share on the GSO website opportunities for discussion on systemic racism offered by the URI’s Office of Community, Equity and Diversity.

There have been many thoughtful statements across the country that address recent disturbing racist acts and the need to confront racial injustice and the culture that fosters it. I would like to share one by Dr. Sudip S.Parikh, CEO of the AAAS, that is an insightful statement about the need to come together in the science community to address the challenges that we are all facing. 

GSO is committed to moving forward in a thoughtful and meaningful way in the days and years to come. Please reach out to me and other GSO leaders if you would like to express concerns or suggestions.

Sincerely,

Bruce H. Corliss
Dean, URI Graduate School of Oceanography
The University of Rochester
Search Rochester.edu
Office of the President
About Sarah Mangelsdorf Messages Contact Us Past Presidents Inauguration 
 BACK TO SARAH C. MANGELSDORF MESSAGES
Flying the University Flag at Half-staff to Honor George Floyd
JUNE 4, 2020
The past months have been challenging for all of us, and the last few weeks especially have laid bare the challenges that we as a society and as a University are facing with respect to the blight of systemic racism and racial injustice. The leadership of this institution is committed to candid conversations, to listening, and to real and effective action to address the concerns of our black students, faculty, staff, and alumni and their allies. And we recognize that this must be a shared commitment. We will be sending a broader message on this essential topic shortly.

Today, we are flying the University of Rochester flag on the Eastman Quadrangle and at the Medical Center at half-staff to commemorate today’s memorial service for George Floyd and as a step to demonstrating our public commitment to anti-racism in every area of this institution. We are all feeling the anguish of injustice today. I stand with you in sorrow and anger, and look forward to joining with you in doing the work that must be done.

Sincerely,

Sarah C. Mangelsdorf
President

FOR: StudentsParents & FamiliesFacultyStaffAlumniLocal Community
Text Only Contact Us Newscenter Calendar Futurity
River Campus (mailing address): 500 Joseph C. Wilson Blvd., Rochester, NY 14627

River Campus (GPS/maps): 252 Elmwood Ave., Rochester, NY

Medical Center: 601 Elmwood Ave., Rochester, NY 14642

Eastman School: 26 Gibbs St., Rochester, NY 14604

Maps & Directions

FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagramLinkedInTumblrFuturityMore social
EMERGENCY COPYRIGHT ACCESSIBILITY NONDISCRIMINATION & TITLE IX© University of Rochester 1996-2020
A MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT BOB CASLEN
May 31, 2020

With heavy hearts, we mourn the horrific killing of George Floyd at the hands of a police officer while three other officers stood by in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Our thoughts go out to Floyd's family and to the families of all those who have been the victims of violent murders fueled by racism and hatred in our country. These events are a stark reminder of the dark divisions that continue to run through our society, the legacy of a dark past that we have not yet fully reconciled. We must acknowledge these divisions and commit to becoming a more just and equitable society.

We stand in solidarity with the African American community, as these events have only compounded the sense of grief, fear, and loss brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. Here as well, we are reminded of the systemic biases that shape our realities. It is our collective responsibility to challenge these institutional inequities and to demand better for ourselves and for future generations.

As Gamecocks, let us be leaders in these efforts. Our Carolinian Creed calls on us to respect the dignity of all persons, to respect the rights and property of others, to discourage bigotry, while striving to learn from differences in people, ideas, and opinions. Violence and hateful rhetoric are not reflective of these values. If we are to begin the process of healing the wounds of racism, hate and bigotry that have brought us to this current tipping point, we must engage one another in thoughtful dialogue about our individual and collective experiences. We must do the work of educating ourselves about the harmful impact of racism and discrimination in all of its manifestations.

Anti-discrimination and anti-harassment training are currently provided to UofSC faculty and staff and required of all students who are new to the Columbia campus. And multiple units are engaged in advancing diversity and inclusion initiatives across our campus. However, given this pivotal moment in which we find ourselves, we will intensify these efforts to ensure that we are equipping our students, faculty and staff with the tools needed to effectively navigate the current tensions in our society. To this end, we are assembling a team to work on the implementation of a new diversity module that will be required of all UofSC freshmen as part of their orientation process beginning in the 2020-2021 academic year. And we will amplify the training available to all students, faculty and staff to ensure that we have the resources needed to foster a campus culture that is reflective of our Creed.

In his 1963 "Letter from a Birmingham Jail,"Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. acknowledged the "interrelatedness of all communities and states,"noting that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny."Let us turn our anger into action, demanding justice where there is injustice, peace where there is violence, and love where there is hate. Let the suffocation of this moment be the impetus for change.

Campus Resources:

To report incidents of bias or hate, submit a Bias and Hate Incident Form

UofSC Counseling & Psychiatry: 803-777-5223 

UofSC Police Department: 803-777-4215

 

Tracey L. Weldon
Interim Chief Diversity Officer, Office of the Provost
Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences

Bob Caslen
President                                                                               
Message from USF President Steven C. Currall
MAY 30, 2020UNIVERSITY NEWS
To Members of the USF Community:

I believe I speak for the entire University of South Florida community when I express our deep sadness over recent events in Minneapolis and around the country. The deaths of two black men, George Floyd in Minneapolis and Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, should prompt us to pause and think about how racism impacts all of our lives.

Although neither of those individuals were affiliated with the University of South Florida, events such as this have a powerful impact on people of every background and in every community.  The impact is magnified in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has so badly shaken us all.

As we work to help each other understand what has happened -- if we can ever truly understand -- I find myself reflecting on the Principles of Community we aspire to at USF;  to treat each other with respect and dignity, refrain from displays of inappropriate anger or intimidating conduct, shun epithets or abusive language, find effective means to disagree, and to persuade and to inform through dialogue.

For our students, faculty and staff, I want to remind them of the resources available through the university’s Office of Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the USF Counseling Center. I urge you to seek out their support.

I believe we must support and care for each other during times like these and not forget that each of us is empowered to stand up to injustice whenever and wherever it occurs.

Thank you.

Steve Currall

Steven C. Currall, Ph.D.
President and Professor
University of South Florida
Note to Community from President Folt
May 31, 2020

Dear Trojan Community,

I write today, hoping you and your families are well and safe, yet knowing that many of you are not; your hearts are aching, and you are searching for answers, actions, and hope. The horrific deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and so many others, together with the demonstrations and unrest sweeping our nation are tearing at us all.  

These violent acts come at a time when our world has already been profoundly disrupted by COVID-19. And many of those hit the hardest are people of color, particularly African Americans – the very same people in communities already burdened by a history of prejudice, poverty, and especially racism.  

Many of you have told me that you are feeling sad, angry, desperate and despairing as you face such grave injustices and the escalation of tensions, and you are trying to find a way forward.

It weighs heavily on all of us. But we are Trojans, united as a university dedicated to the fundamental principles of equality and inclusion, education, and discovery for the good of humanity. We can make a positive difference, as we have for more than 100 years.

I don’t have the answers today, but we will continue to seek them together. I know that we can effect change – in our community, our city, and our nation. Now, more than ever, we need to rely on each other and help each other and our neighbors through these times. We are a community strengthened by the diversity that you bring – we are the students who want to change the world, the faculty dedicated to inspiring young leaders, the staff who keep the university running, the healthcare workers on the front lines, the social workers, the business leaders, the community organizers, the creators, entrepreneurs, teachers, and scholars our nation needs, and so much more. We must be there to support our communities. And, we know we can.

This moment is our call to action. It will be challenging to confront directly issues like racism in our community, but we must. We have started discussions with our student, faculty, staff, and alumni organizations, our civic leaders and our neighbors in the community. We recognize the need for continued conversations around policing, and our chief of the USC Department of Public Safety will be partnering with our campus and broader community to find collective answers to persistent inequities. We will engage you to break down silos that separate us, encourage thoughtful debate, and protect the dignity of every individual in our community. Together, we will stand for justice and embrace a culture of respect for all.

With respect and admiration,

Carol L. Folt
President

Adobe PDF version
His Name is George Floyd
May 30, 2020
We will step forward and show the world what kindness, equity, and inclusion for all people can look like

George Floyd. His name is George Floyd and he should be alive today. Sadly, the list of black people in America subjected to violence is long and getting longer. We grieve for their moms, dads, spouses, sons, daughters, brothers, sisters, grandparents whose loss is unimaginable. We grieve for their friends and neighbors and their community. I condemn brutality in all its forms, but it is most egregious in the hands of those who have taken an oath to protect.

My heart aches for so many as senseless acts of racism and violence continue. The pain and fear are evident in the protests, media, and conversations. The pain and fear are real for so many members of our campus community. We should all be angry, and for many anger has been replaced with exhaustion.

We must do better. Vol is a Verb, and action is important. We will continue the hard work to create a campus where everyone matters and belongs. Where anyone can study, work, learn, teach, jog, and live their daily life without fear. Where education becomes the great equalizer for anyone who wants it. Creating an environment for all Vols to succeed is a responsibility we all share.

Many groups have been working for weeks on making our campus safe for the return of students in the fall—safe from COVID-19. Some ask how is that in 2020 we still face the need to make sure that students, faculty, and staff are safe from racism. Black friends and colleagues have expressed to me that they are tired of having this conversation only to have it followed by another disgusting display of racism. We all need to join together to carry the torch of safety, dignity, respect, and human rights for everyone. We will do both of these things—plan for a fall safe from the coronavirus, and also plan for a future at this university where everyone feels safe and respected, where we have achieved our goals of being a place where everyone matters and belongs.

I will be convening members of our campus—students, faculty, staff, UTPD—in a conversation about how we pull together, support one another, and create the campus we want to have. I will work in partnership with student, faculty, and staff representatives to listen, learn, and take action. At a time when we are separated by distance, it is more important than ever to be united in commitment and support for one another. Take time to check on your friends and colleagues who might be having a difficult time. They are in pain and they need to know we are here for them.

Volunteers step forward in leadership and service. We will step forward and show the world what kindness, equity, and inclusion for all people can look like.

Donde Plowman signature

 

 

Donde Plowman
Chancellor
Dear UTA Community,

I am writing with a shared sense of shock, fear, outrage and sadness as we reflect upon the senseless killing of George Floyd as well as recent incidents of hatred, inequality and ensuing violence. This touches me deeply as it brings back scarred memories of years of racism and bullying I endured during my youth simply because of my ethnicity. I am forever grateful to my adopted country that has allowed me to heal my wounds and pursue my dreams.

Now, more than ever, it is time that we renew our own commitment to and uphold the values set forth in UTA's Principles of Community. The basis for our UTA Community is mutual respect "…members of our community build trust by finding ways to communicate with one another respectfully. With civil discourse, our other principles will follow. Therefore, we will listen, not just to hear, but to try and understand."

Our nation and our society face tremendous challenges in overcoming racism, discrimination and injustice. As scholars and students, teachers and mentors, I believe each of us at UTA has our own role in making a difference, changing all that is broken and accentuating the good I personally have experienced.

As Dr. Martin Luther King stated, "One of the great liabilities of history is that all too many people fail to remain awake through great periods of social change…Today, our very survival depends on our ability to stay awake, to adjust to new ideas, to remain vigilant and to face the challenge of change."

Let us commit ourselves to act with fairness, justice and mutual respect for all.

Sincerely yours,

Teik C. Lim, Ph.D.

President ad interim

#UTAUnited
Turbulent and Difficult Times
June 1, 2020

Dear UT Community, 

This isn't the first letter I'd planned to write as interim President of The University of Texas at Austin. I had a series of welcome messages set to go out today. But they didn't anticipate or acknowledge the events of the past few days and the pain those events have caused for so many — so I had to start over. 

Today's transition comes during a turbulent and difficult time. We are experiencing widespread outrage, anger, sadness and reflection here in Austin, throughout Texas and across our country. The senseless killing of George Floyd and the ensuing protests have gripped the nation. As I watch these events unfold, I feel for those who are in pain and am acutely aware that we must continue our struggle for meaningful and enduring change to overcome acts of racism and violence that corrode our community.

These challenges come as we are already responding to the COVID-19 crisis, which has become so much more than a life-threatening disease. It has paused or disrupted many of the core elements of our daily lives, forcing students to adjust to learning remotely and a different market for internships and jobs; requiring faculty and staff members to work in new, less comfortable ways; threatening many individuals' ability to keep their jobs and earn a living; and impacting our health care and education systems.

As we navigate these difficult times, I am reminded of just how critical The University of Texas at Austin is for our community, state, nation and the entire world.

UT has always been a special place to me, as a student, faculty member and dean of the McCombs School of Business. Now more than ever, I see that the creation and dissemination of knowledge are the most effective antidotes for injustice, inequality and intolerance, and for the advancement and improvement of our society. And that's what we do at UT.

We say, "What starts here changes the world."Those starts and changes don't just happen. They are the result of actions — large and small, as individuals and in teams — by our students, faculty, staff and alumni.

Without question, 2020 has not been the year any of us wanted it to be. We have seen political dysfunction, a global pandemic, economic distress, racial tension — and it is only June 1. In facing these struggles and uncertainty, we need people who can think creatively, develop workable solutions and solve difficult problems. The University of Texas has always had a mandate to be a "university of the first class."Part of that mandate means that this university and the people of this community will take an active role in addressing the critical problems our society is facing.

As Longhorns, when we are tested, we don't shy away. When we are challenged, we don't fade into the background and shrink from our responsibility. We come together and draw upon the diverse range of talent, energy and passion that we have on the Forty Acres, to take on the most important and difficult issues of our time. I look forward to working with you to do that in the days and months ahead.

Sincerely yours,

Jay Hartzell
Interim President

The University of Texas at Dallas - Office of the President
May 31, 2020

Over the last few days, I have heard from concerned students and colleagues about the horrific footage of George Floyd’s killing in Minneapolis.

I have watched the outrage over this tragedy from cities around the country. I have seen the emotional outpouring as people demand change in our society, and I have personally felt great anguish watching a defenseless man die while begging for help from those who are sworn to protect us.

As one who believes in the American ideal, this week has been difficult to comprehend. I know that I am not alone in questioning how our society can move forward when too many people are denied their rights. And so terribly often, those treated the most violently have been black.

Change must occur, and each one of us must play a role in effecting this change.

As president of UT Dallas, I reinforce the values of community, diversity and tolerance we share on our campus. I stress the imperative that we must live these values daily, and I emphasize the resolve we must have to honor this commitment now and into the future.

We, at UT Dallas, recommit to providing a safe, welcoming environment to all people, regardless of race, religion, ethnic origin, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation.

Each one of us — staff, faculty and students — must take these principles into our core if we are to have any hope of effecting change in our society. I ask that we all recommit ourselves so that, as Comets, we live the values we hope become reality for all people across our nation.

Let UT Dallas be a beacon of decency to the rest of the nation.

Sincerely,

Richard C. Benson
President
Eugene McDermott Distinguished University Chair of Leadership


The University of Texas at Dallas
800 W. Campbell Rd, Richardson, Texas 75080-3021

View this in your browser.
Turbulent and Difficult Times
June 1, 2020

Dear UT Community, 

This isn't the first letter I'd planned to write as interim President of The University of Texas at Austin. I had a series of welcome messages set to go out today. But they didn't anticipate or acknowledge the events of the past few days and the pain those events have caused for so many — so I had to start over. 

Today's transition comes during a turbulent and difficult time. We are experiencing widespread outrage, anger, sadness and reflection here in Austin, throughout Texas and across our country. The senseless killing of George Floyd and the ensuing protests have gripped the nation. As I watch these events unfold, I feel for those who are in pain and am acutely aware that we must continue our struggle for meaningful and enduring change to overcome acts of racism and violence that corrode our community.

These challenges come as we are already responding to the COVID-19 crisis, which has become so much more than a life-threatening disease. It has paused or disrupted many of the core elements of our daily lives, forcing students to adjust to learning remotely and a different market for internships and jobs; requiring faculty and staff members to work in new, less comfortable ways; threatening many individuals' ability to keep their jobs and earn a living; and impacting our health care and education systems.

As we navigate these difficult times, I am reminded of just how critical The University of Texas at Austin is for our community, state, nation and the entire world.

UT has always been a special place to me, as a student, faculty member and dean of the McCombs School of Business. Now more than ever, I see that the creation and dissemination of knowledge are the most effective antidotes for injustice, inequality and intolerance, and for the advancement and improvement of our society. And that's what we do at UT.

We say, "What starts here changes the world."Those starts and changes don't just happen. They are the result of actions — large and small, as individuals and in teams — by our students, faculty, staff and alumni.

Without question, 2020 has not been the year any of us wanted it to be. We have seen political dysfunction, a global pandemic, economic distress, racial tension — and it is only June 1. In facing these struggles and uncertainty, we need people who can think creatively, develop workable solutions and solve difficult problems. The University of Texas has always had a mandate to be a "university of the first class."Part of that mandate means that this university and the people of this community will take an active role in addressing the critical problems our society is facing.

As Longhorns, when we are tested, we don't shy away. When we are challenged, we don't fade into the background and shrink from our responsibility. We come together and draw upon the diverse range of talent, energy and passion that we have on the Forty Acres, to take on the most important and difficult issues of our time. I look forward to working with you to do that in the days and months ahead.

Sincerely yours,

Jay Hartzell
Interim President
President Eighmy addresses UTSA on standing together for social justice
President Eighmy addresses UTSA on standing together for social justice
JUNE 2, 2020 — Editor’s note: The following message was sent via email today from President Taylor Eighmy to all students, faculty and staff:

The recent incidents of racism, violence and killing of Black citizens in our country are a stark reminder of how we must rid deeply rooted bigotry and injustices from our society. I am horrified by these senseless killings and—as I said in my statement over the weekend—I find myself feeling deeply frustrated by the lack of progress made by our country since civil rights activists fought for equal rights 56 years ago. The impact of COVID-19 on communities of color is yet another heart-wrenching example of the reality of ongoing national systemic inequities.

We cannot let the deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor go unnoticed or unaddressed. Nor can we ignore the countless other Black people and other people of color who have lost their lives to senseless acts of violence. We must call out and condemn these racist acts, stand together in the fight for justice, speak out and enact change. On behalf of UTSA’s entire leadership team I want to convey to Black students, faculty and staff in the Roadrunner community that we see you and we will continue to fight alongside you. Black Lives Matter.

I believe public research universities have a responsibility to be at the forefront of change for our country. I believe we can serve as models for diversity, equity and inclusion. I believe we are all born with the same potential—but not given the same opportunities. I believe education is a great equalizer and has the power to change lives and create a more just and equitable society. I believe we have an obligation to ensure that Black students and other underrepresented students feel welcome in our inclusive community, experience a powerful educational journey and graduate prepared to change the world.

We have our own work to do to be exemplary in building an environment of inclusive excellence on our campus. Much work has been done on this front in the past year and much more is planned, including upcoming training sessions in August on addressing racial bias, anti-racist efforts and microagressions. We recognize the need for continued conversations around policing, building on Fair and Impartial Policing training implemented by our UTSA PD last year. I hold myself—and UTSA’s entire leadership team—accountable for continuing to move beyond acknowledging the issues and to provide spaces for our community to fight for justice in effective ways.

Tomorrow’s community gathering, hosted by the Multicultural Student Center for Equity and Justice, is an opportunity to support our grieving and angry community. For any of you who may need additional support, please reach out:

For students, UTSA Counseling and Mental Health Services offers same-day or next-day phone and video counseling sessions.
For faculty and staff, counseling services are available through the Employee Assistance Program.
I encourage all of you—the entire Roadrunner community—to take time to process, take care of one another and take action to move our nation forward.


Diversity and Inclusion: Recognizing our Shortcomings, Working to Improve
Over the past few days, we were made aware of social media comments made by a few students that are racist, offensive and harmful to our community. We are appalled and disheartened that any member of the NC State community would choose to make such abhorrent statements.

To say the words and actions in those posts stand in complete opposition to NC State’s values is an understatement.

As a public institution, NC State is bound by privacy laws such that we cannot share information about individual students or the specifics of investigations. We know that many will not be satisfied with this response, but please know these incidents are being addressed.

At this challenging time across our nation, and in our own community, we want to be clear where NC State leadership stands: We stand against and condemn white supremacy, racial injustice and all forms of racism and discrimination. NC State’s Black students, faculty and staff deserve a campus culture where they feel safe, supported, respected and valued. We are committed to doing all we can to protect, promote and advance diversity, equity and inclusion at NC State.

These incidents remind us that we fall far short of where we aim to be. We need to do more and do better. As a Wolfpack, we must remain united and committed – every one of us must actively contribute to help ensure a more diverse and inclusive environment. And, we need to be innovative and try new ideas and approaches to embrace and advance diversity and inclusion.

We may not get it right every time, but we are committed to listening to the voices and lived experiences of those impacted and challenging ourselves to do the work necessary to build a more just and equitable NC State.

As one first step, in the coming academic year, we will require every student, faculty and staff member to complete diversity and inclusion learning modules. This will include every member of Cabinet as well as all of the deans, directors and department heads of the university.

As another step, we are assembling an interdisciplinary team to evaluate NC State’s policies, examine every opportunity to strengthen them against racism and discriminatory behavior, and modify, where allowed by law, to bolster our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion.

When students return in the fall, we commit to working with them to collaboratively review NC State’s Code of Student Conduct and examine opportunities for improving and strengthening the code, where allowed by law. We will also work with students to review, update and improve our university’s statement of values. When complete, we will expect every student at NC State to uphold these values that define the inclusive and supportive culture that we seek for our community.

Additionally, when students, faculty and staff return to campus, we want to move to a place of dialogue and partnership to have difficult but necessary conversations, better gauge what is needed, what is possible, and working together, what we’re going to do about it. We are working on a plan to facilitate those discussions.

These are not the last things we will do, and they are not nearly enough to overcome the many challenges related to actively addressing both the individual acts of racism and the system of racism to foster belonging for all. But they are a few next steps, and we are fully committed to doing more to keep moving forward.

We are a university that is about transforming lives and making the world a better place. This mission is more important today than ever before. We have much work yet to do, work that will require humility, empathy, resilience, hope and engagement. We remain committed to striving today and every day to ensure a university climate that embraces, values and advances a diverse, inclusive and supportive campus culture.

W. Randolph Woodson | Chancellor
Warwick Arden | Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost
Charles Maimone | Vice Chancellor for Finance and Administration
Brad Bohlander |Chief Communications Officer, Associate Vice Chancellor of University Communications
Boo Corrigan | Director of Athletics
Marc I. Hoit | Vice Chancellor for Information Technology
Kevin Howell | Vice Chancellor for External Affairs, Partnerships and Economic Development
Sheri L. Schwab | Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity
Brian Sischo | Vice Chancellor for University Advancement
P.J. Teal | Secretary of the University and Assistant to the Chancellor
Mladen Vouk | Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation
Marie Williams | Associate Vice Chancellor for Human Resources
Lisa Zapata | Interim Vice Chancellor for the Division of Academic and Student Affairs
Message from President Cockett
May 31, 2020

USU President Noelle Cockett

Full Size
Dear USU students, faculty and staff,

The tragic death of George Floyd in Minneapolis was extremely disturbing to watch. The national protests and unrest that have followed prompt me today to publicly reaffirm Utah State University’s and my own personal commitment to inclusion and respect in our Aggie family and in those communities we reach every day.

Clearly there are many troubling, systemic issues confronting us as a nation, and I think these highly volatile moments are opportune times for us to look inside ourselves to see how we can personally help address and alleviate injustice. These are the times for our Aggie Family to join together and reflect about our commitment to USU’s Principles of Community – our institutional Aggie pledge to diversity, human dignity and social responsibility.

Please join with me today as I reassert one of my critical obligations as university president: to cultivate an environment of respectful engagement and respectful discourse at every level of our society. Thank you.

Respectfully,

Noelle E. Cockett

President, Utah State University
27
CONTACT
Tim Vitale
Associate Vice President for Strategic Communications
University Marketing and Communications
 435-797-1356
 tim.vitale@usu.edu

ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
- Aggies Think, Care, Act
TOPICS
    
Post your Comment
We welcome your comments but your submission will NOT be published online. Your comment or question will be forwarded to the appropriate person. Thank you.
Justice, Inclusion and Humanity – May 30
 June 1, 2020
TU students, faculty and staff,

This past week has brought a heightened sense of shock and sadness as we witnessed an unarmed man being deprived of his rights, his dignity and, eventually, his very breath. George Floyd’s death was captured on video and shared with a world already on edge.

Whether it’s on a Minneapolis street in 2020 or in a Tulsa elevator in 1921, the legacy of racism is deep, pervasive and intolerable.

You, the members of our university community, have a choice. You can choose to recognize bias – in yourself and others – and have the personal courage to call it out. You can be vigilant and vocal. You can be an agent for positive change and an advocate for those at risk of being marginalized. Although we are apart, we are not alone. We are stronger together, and we must live our commitment to justice, inclusion and humanity.

Janet K. Levit
Interim President
A Message About Grieving and Searching for Answers Together
My Dearest UVM: I write to you to share what is on my heart. I am bursting with so many emotions, I need to share. As I wipe away tears that keep forming in the corners of my eyes, know I am thinking of all of you, my UVM family. I really appreciate the calls and texts from so many of you who wanted to make sure I was okay. I am also grateful for the calls where you shared your ideas, anger, and grief with me. Like many of you, I watched in horror the video showing the death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police officers. I sobbed for George as if he was my own son or brother lying on the cold, hard concrete. I then wept for Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and Tony McDade, and soon I was crying for the many who have tragically lost their lives over the years because of racism and inequality. 


Unfortunately, the killing of black men or women by police is not new; it is so common that initially many turned to the usual responses: hashtags, T-shirts, flags, and national leaders condemning this horrific act. Still, George Floyd's homicide seems different to me and so many Blacks or African Americans. Was it the cold, hard concrete he died on, the cry for his mama as he took his last breaths, the plea from so many to help him that was ignored, or was this just the final straw? I continue to reflect on why this tragedy has become a global call for change and action. Regardless, this hurts me to the core. I am exhausted. My Black and African American family and friends are exhausted. We are sick and tired of being sick and tired.

As an African American woman who is also the University's Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, I am yearning for justice, looking for accountability, praying for solutions, and wishing we could be together to comfort one another. This crime against humanity, coupled with the impact of COVID-19 on us as a society has forever changed us. Exactly how we let these events change us, is up to us. For me, I am choosing to remain hopeful and draw upon my faith as I push away my tears, so I can see a better future. 

Despite the challenges we face and the fear we may feel, let us redouble our efforts and insist on systemic reform. I know we cannot take on everything, but we can have an impact at UVM, and in the communities where we serve that will branch out to advance critical social and cultural efforts everywhere. We must use our educational platform to share and enhance knowledge, understanding, ideas and solutions that not only address issues of prejudice and discrimination, but also transform lives for generations to come. We must endeavor to inspire professionals who will be more just, equitable, compassionate, and anti-racist.

As we grieve and search for answers together, I ask that you look after one another, in particular for those of us that are Black or African American. I ask that you condemn any behavior that diminishes the humanity of others. This vicious cycle must be broken because if not now when? The world around us seems to be exploding right now, and we all deserve better. I know I could say so much more. This will not be the last time you hear from me. This work of racial equity has been my life's work, and I need help now more than ever. I need partners. Let us collectively work together and steadfastly to confront and address generations of institutionalized racism. 

I am going to start by hosting a Teach-In to help catalyze action. In addition, I intend to create digital "Brave Spaces,"to support and lift up voices from within our University that are committed to this work. I am asking you to join me, plan with me, lead with me, and when I reach out for your help, please answer my call in both your words and your actions.

This is my single story, so please listen to others who have stories they are willing to share. Your voice matters, and no one can take that away from you unless you give it to them.

In Solidarity for Change and Peace,

Wanda
                                 
Wanda Heading-Grant
Vice President
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

PUBLISHED06-03-2020
WANDA HEADING-GRANT, VP DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCL
The University of Vermont Burlington, VT 05405 (802) 656-3131Contact UVM | Accessibility | Privacy/Terms of Use | © 2020
Dear VCU and VCU Health community,

For several days, I have watched crowds of people across the nation and here in Richmond express their anger and frustration over distressing, horrific events against African Americans in our country, including the recent killings of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Breonna Taylor in Louisville, and Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia.

What I see again and again is a very public manifestation of American history and, indeed, America’s present. It is impossible to comprehend centuries of horrifying injustice against minorities in this nation, particularly African Americans. Yet, even in 2020, your skin color still influences your social mobility and vitality even more so than where you were educated, live, or work. In America, it is still far too easy for those with privilege and prejudice to undo the hard-earned successes of others, particularly racial minorities. Individual, institutional, and structural racism is still our tragic reality.

We must do better. We must recognize and respect the dignity and humanity in each of us.

This also calls for us to remain mindful of the communities we share. The protests over the past few days on and near VCU’s Monroe Park Campus have resulted in damage to our shared community, including broken windows and doors, graffiti, damaged vehicles, and debris fires. I am grateful to our many employees who have responded quickly to make repairs and keep everyone on our campus safe to live, learn, and heal.

We will work together to fix what’s broken here. We must fix what has been broken in our communities across this nation for decades. 

Let’s commit to repairing broken systems that serve to create mistrust in government and law enforcement. Let’s resolve to make equitable and fair the distribution of justice. Let’s pledge to reconcile our own struggles between who we are and who we strive to become as individuals and as communities.

As we continue to process what is happening across our nation—especially the very public violence against African Americans and to our shared communities—the one thing that makes sense is that we can no longer afford to stand by idly. None of us is immune. We must stand to change the systems we have created. We must continue to empower and support our faculty, staff, students, alumni, and neighbors to change the world by voting, and by making equity and inclusion accessible everywhere. We must think about our shared humanity in more enlightened ways, because quite frankly, black lives must matter if we are to ever realize the potential of VCU’s shared community and the vast privileges of belonging to a global community.

Sincerely,

Michael Rao, Ph.D.

President

VCU and VCU Health System

21st-Century University, Community, To VCU
Tagged Ahmaud Arbery, Black Lives Matter, Breonna Taylor, George Floyd

Skip to main contentSkip to search
VIRGINIA TECH™HOME
Universal Access Toggle
APPLY
VISIT
GIVE

SHOP

Resources for

VIRGINIA TECH DAILY

MENU

SEARCH
Virginia Tech Daily/ Articles/ 2020/ May/ A statement from President Tim Sands and Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity Menah Pratt-Clarke
Explore
A statement from President Tim Sands and Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity Menah Pratt-Clarke
May 31, 2020

Aerial view of Virginia Tech Drillfield
Dear Hokies,

As we reflect on a tumultuous week in the United States – surpassing 100,000 in the official count of deaths ascribed to COVID-19 and the boiling over of frustration and anger over the tragic and unnecessary deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and George Floyd - we do so from the relative safety of our quiet Blacksburg homes. Jarring images and videos taken by some of our own children on the streets of Chicago and Washington, D.C., bring home the immediacy of the crisis. It saddens us to know that many in our Virginia Tech community have lost loved ones, or have been traumatized by the events of the past weeks.

Dwelling on images, dramatic events, and counts can distract from the common truths that the pandemic and race-driven murders reveal. As great as our ideals of freedom, justice, and equality may be, the reality is persistently and pervasively falling short of what we say we are all about. From the marked disparities in COVID-19 illness and death across racial, ethnic, and economic divides, to the unrelenting burden of racism, past and present, systemic and overt, we cannot continue to expect incremental change and the goodwill of the majority to solve a multigenerational problem.

So what do we do? What actions can we take? While there is a place for protests, we must do more than protest. We have an opportunity as individuals and in our own communities to construct a microcosm of the society in which we wish to live. At Virginia Tech, we have anchored that aspiration in our Principles of Community, but principles only become meaningful if they are acted upon. Our strategic plan, The Virginia Tech Difference – Advancing Beyond Boundaries, takes the principles one step further to actionable priorities and accountability. Let’s work together to ensure that Virginia Tech becomes a model for a just and equitable learning community that prepares the next generation to lead in a new and better world. Over the next few weeks, the Office for Inclusion and Diversity will be working in collaboration with diversity directors, InclusiveVT representatives, diversity committees, advocates, and allies to identify specific action steps to work for sustainable transformation. We hope you will join in those efforts to help make our world a better place for all.

In the spirit of Ut Prosim,

Tim Sands,
President
Menah Pratt-Clarke,
Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity
Those in the Virginia Tech community who need assistance or counseling support may contact:

Cook Counseling Center at 540-231-6557.
Dean of Students Office at 540-231-3787. Referral to a campus cleric may be made through this office.
Employee Assistance Program
Anthem at 855-223-9277
Aetna at 888-238-6232
Kaiser Permanente at 866-517-7042
Optima Health Vantage HMO at 866-846-2682
Hokie Wellness at 540-231-2233 (students) or 540-231-8878 (employees)
InclusiveVT at 540-231-7500
Office of Housing and Residence Life at 540-231-6205
Women’s Center at Virginia Tech at 540-231-7806
CONTACTS:
Tracy Vosburgh

540-231-5396

Mark Owczarski

540-231-5396

Top News
Article Item
Three people on a zoom call
Unfinished Conversations on Race: Education is key in combating racism, article
Article Item
Caption: Webster Santos (center) and the mitochondrial uncoupler team. Six males are smiling as they stand in front of a large window in Hahn Hall.
Virginia Tech drug researcher develops ‘fat burning’ molecule that has implications for treatment of obesity, article
Article Item
2020 President’s Award for Excellence recipients during celebration on June 4
Five employees named as recipients of the 2020 President’s Award for Excellence, article
TAGS
Beyond BoundariesCampus and CommunityInclusion and DiversityOffice of the PresidentStrategic PlanTop News
Map of Virginia with pins showing locations of Virginia Tech campuses. See All Locations link which follows provides details
Virginia Tech logo
GET DIRECTIONS  

SEE ALL LOCATIONS  

CONTACT VIRGINIA TECH  

University Status
Principles of Community
Privacy Statement
Acceptable Use
We Remember
University Libraries
Accessibility
Consumer Information
Stop Abuse
Policies
Equal Opportunity
WVTF
University Bookstore
Jobs at Virginia Tech
Strategic Plan
© 2020 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved.

Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linked In
Pintrest
YouTube
Share to Facebook
, Number of shares695
Share to Twitter
Share to LinkedIn
Share to Email
To the University community,

On Sunday, I offered some brief reflections on social media regarding the death of George Floyd. Those reflections and that medium were inadequate to the topic, which is why I am writing you today.

Let me start with the obvious but nonetheless essential. What happened to George Floyd – his callous and indifferent killing at the hands of a white police officer – was immoral and sickening. As Dean Risa Goluboff wrote recently, it might be tempting also to say it was "shocking,"but that wrongly suggests it was surprising. The recent and senseless deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and so many others before them whose lives were cut short demonstrate otherwise. This sort of violence against black people, including at the hands of those who are supposed to protect all of us, is sadly all too familiar and stretches back not just decades, but centuries, through the Civil Rights Era, Jim Crow, Reconstruction, and slavery.

And let me apologize. When I wrote last weekend, I felt deep despair. Despair for the treatment experienced by so many people of color in this country – not just by police, but by every segment of society, including higher education, including here at UVA. Despair for the current state of our country, which seems to be unraveling before our eyes. Despair for the continued racial inequities across a wide range of contexts – education, criminal justice, health care, housing, jobs – that are still there, as is the systemic racism that underlies those inequities.

But in my own despair, in indulging in it, I failed to express the genuine sorrow I feel for the unequal and unfair burden that I know our black students, faculty, and staff carry with them, not just through this episode, but through every day. George Floyd's death is just another sharp reminder that far too many people of color in this country live a life that is less secure – less safe – than white people, in part because of encounters with police officers who inflicted harm on people they were meant to protect. As a white parent of four kids, I have not had to have the conversation that so many black parents have had with theirs, cautioning them about how to behave around those who are meant to protect all of us. For all of that, I am truly sorry – both for that burden and for failing to acknowledge it.

And I know it's time to act and not simply to despair or rest on faith. Over the weekend, the Division for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at UVA posted a powerful statement from a group of faculty, staff, and community members reflecting on the latest tragedies. In it, they wrote:

We must continue to do the hard work that will help ensure that our future is different, more just, more accepting, and more inclusive. The future we envision is one in which the devaluing of life is no longer accepted, and where bigotry no longer contaminates our systems and institutions, burdening some community members much more than others.

I couldn't agree more, and I am committed to that work. It's in many ways why I came (back) here.

Through the hard work of many students, faculty, and staff – not to mention the persistent advocacy of alumni and community members – UVA is a better place today than it was a decade ago, or the decade before that. But there is more work to do in order for UVA to look more like the state and country in which we live; in order for UVA to be a trusted neighbor to the Charlottesville region; and in order for all students, faculty, and staff to have their voices and their presence equally valued, respected, and included in their everyday lives on Grounds.

I have tried to champion some of that work in my two years as president, and some of it – like increasing student and faculty diversity and being a good neighbor to the Charlottesville region – is in our strategic plan. To complement and push that work forward, today I have asked three colleagues to lead a racial equity task force: Ian Solomon, the Dean of the Batten School of Public Policy; Kevin McDonald, our Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion; and Barbara Brown Wilson, a faculty member in the School of Architecture and the faculty director of The Equity Center. This group will convene with students, faculty, and staff to gather together the growing list of recommendations, suggestions, and demands regarding the subject of racial equity at UVA – and to solicit others – and will send me a concrete and prioritized set of recommendations about the best steps forward, including actions that can be implemented right away.

Eleven days after I returned to UVA to begin as president, I spoke at an event to mark and remember the one-year anniversary of the white supremacist march through Grounds the year before. As I said then and will say again here:

I stand here today as an ally. I am surely an imperfect one, which is to say I am human, like all of you. I will disappoint some of you for doing too much and others for doing too little, some for going too fast and others for not going fast enough. But I know in my heart where I would like to go, and that is the place where our aspirations and our realities finally intersect. I know that many of you, so many of you, would like to get there as well.

I look forward to our continued, imperfect journey together.

Best,

Jim
--
James E. Ryan
President
University of Virginia

MEDIA CONTACT
Brian Coy

btc6r@virginia.edu 434-243-2070


Trending
THIS WEEK
UVA Renames Building for Walter Ridley, First African American to Earn Doctoral Degree
UVA Renames Building for Walter Ridley, First African American to Earn Doctoral Degree MORE
UVA Intends to Start In-Person Classes in August
UVA Intends to Start In-Person Classes in August MORE
Today, Again, I Am Overwhelmed By Grief and Rage …
Today, Again, I Am Overwhelmed By Grief and Rage … MORE
Video
POPULAR ON UVA TODAY
virtual_finals_thumb.jpg
UVA Class of 2020 Virtual Celebration MORE
year_in_review_thumb.jpg
A Year We Will Never Forget: 2019-20 in Review MORE
jim_ryan_speech_thumb.jpg
‘What Will You Carry With You?' Remarks From UVA President Jim Ryan MORE

Latest Stories
VIEW ALL >
A mobile robot, designed to work in hazardous environments, has been modified to kill the virus that causes COVID-19. (Photos by Sanjay Suchak, University Communications)
RESEARCH & DISCOVERY
Mechanical Engineers Develop Coronavirus Decontamination Robot
(Photo by Kipp Teague via Creative Commons)
BUSINESS & GOVERNMENT
Students Who Lost Internships Will Help Rural Businesses in New Pa
Dear Washington University community,

To say that this has been a difficult and painful week would be an extreme understatement. Like you, I've watched with sadness and grief as events have unfolded first in Minneapolis in response to the killing of George Floyd, and then across the country as individuals and communities have taken to the streets to express their anger and frustration at the racial injustice that continues to plague our nation. The ongoing racial violence that we are witnessing against people of color is nothing short of devastating. In recent months, we have seen a rise in anti-Asian and anti-Asian-American violence, largely perpetuated by other Americans. In the last two weeks, we have seen the continuation of violence against Black Americans, both at the hands of officers of the state and private individuals. The events of the past several days reflect only the most recent in a long line of wrongs that have been inflicted upon our communities of color. 

Here in St. Louis, we are all too familiar with the refrain of those who are committed to addressing issues of inequality and racism – "No justice, no peace."Given our commitment to activism and social justice, it's no surprise that the St. Louis community has joined the call to action, and I'm heartened to see the passion that drives our friends and neighbors to make their voices heard. I also am deeply concerned for the well-being of our community and remain committed to working toward a constructive path forward in our region that tackles structural disparities and inequities.

I've spent a lot of time this weekend thinking, and engaging in conversation with other university leaders, about how we can best support our community and advance the cause of racial justice during this time – what we could say or do that would bring comfort to those who are hurting, and show solidarity with those who are taking action. Given the enormity of the issues before us, we know without question that words are not enough, and that no "statement"will begin to resolve the tremendous challenges that are still before us. And yet, there are some things that are important to say.

First, we must acknowledge those who are suffering. To our students, faculty, staff, and any other members of our community who are feeling targeted, unheard, or unsupported, we see you and are here for you. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion means more than just welcoming every person into our community. It means valuing you as individuals with your own identities, actively acknowledging that you matter, and unwaveringly supporting your right to be treated fairly and equally in every aspect of our society. We stand with you and condemn all acts of hate, aggression, or disrespect toward any racial group that may happen anywhere in our community, our region, our country, or the world. We are committed to supporting all members of our community, and we must redouble our efforts to achieve the equity that is foundational to fostering this environment.

In addition, we remain committed to making a difference. After the killing of Michael Brown in Ferguson in 2014, our Washington University community began the long process of looking inward, to see how we could create space for honest dialogue about race, ethnicity, inequality, and social justice, how we could "do better and be better."Since that time, we have taken steps as a community to become more fully engaged on these issues, and to work toward positive change. At our most recent Day of Dialogue and Action this spring, we reaffirmed our commitment to creating "intentional spaces to listen, extend empathy, celebrate, and engage in dialogue"in hopes of reflecting on our own humanity and the humanity of others. The events of this week are a painful reminder of how much work we all still have to do, as a nation and as a society.

Finally, we must take action. This includes not only supporting our community, but also doing what is at the core of our mission: leveraging our activities in support of research, teaching, and patient care to make a difference in helping to forward the cause of racial and social justice in our community, our region, and around the world. Already some of our schools have announced initiatives aimed at improving racial equity, especially focusing on racial violence. We anticipate announcing additional initiatives in the coming weeks.

The separation of our community due to the COVID-19 pandemic has placed an additional strain on our ability to come together to support, listen to, and learn from one another. We are all struggling with the disconnection from our peers, friends, and support networks, especially during this time of additional stress. But this only makes our need to create space for engagement within our community even more urgent, and we are working toward ways to do that in the days ahead. In the short-term, please stay tuned for invitations to opportunities to participate in observances and events that our leaders are currently planning. In the longer-term, we continue to listen and engage with members of our community to work toward substantive, mission-oriented action that we will take institutionally to make our city and our world beacons of opportunity for all. 

In these incredibly difficult times, I know there are no words that will be enough. But it's important for you to know that as a community, we are united in our commitment to justice and racial equity.

Sincerely,

Andrew D. Martin
Chancellor

 
Denouncing racial violence and the ugliness of historic, systemic inequality, President Kirk Schulz and the university's executive leadership pledged greater accountability in confronting racial and social justice failures.

"We must consider our own roles in maintaining systemic racism and accepting racial violence, even when it makes us uncomfortable,"a letter from the university system's executive leadership team reads. "When our actions are informed by the truth of others, we can move forward, together, courageously and realize the aspirations of racial and social justice. Only then can we begin to create an authentic space from which to proceed."

In addition to Schulz, the letter was signed by interim Provost Bryan Slinker, incoming Provost Elizabeth Chilton and all chancellors and vice presidents.

Enter search text
Search

All the UW
Current site
Skip to main content
MyUW
Calendar
Directories
Libraries
UW Medicine
Maps
UW Today
Helpful Links
Computing/IT
Workday/ISC
Husky Card
UW Bothell
UW Tacoma
UW Facebook
UW Twitter
University of WashingtonUniversity of Washington
StudentsParentsFaculty & StaffAlumni  Quick Links
UW LEADERSHIP
 
REGENTS
 
PRESIDENT
 
PROVOST
Office of the President
Home
Office of the President
Archive
Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
May 30, 2020

Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
Ana Mari Cauce

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do they see a strong, resilient, educated woman?
Do they see someone who is their ancestors' wildest dreams?
Do they see a woman who has friends and family they love?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do you only see my skin color?
Do you only see the stereotypes others created for me?
Do you only see your fear?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

My brothers and sisters are villainized for asking questions.
My brothers and sisters are detained for walking on a public street.
My brothers and sisters are killed for existing.

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

I wonder when I will be harassed for existing.
I wonder when the police will be called to my door.
I wonder when I will be the one mourned.

I'm terrified to go outside.

– Laura Cañate, MBA '18

The last few weeks and months have been a time of jarring contrasts. Community members donating masks sewn by hand to protect essential workers, while mask-free revelers flout distancing mandates at pools and beaches. Groups of armed white demonstrators march against stay-at-home orders at state capitols with impunity, while for Black Americans the simple act of walking down the street, jogging or birdwatching can be fraught with danger, and even end in death. Too many are left to wonder, as does UW MBA alumna Laura Cañate, ‘18, "when I will be the one mourned."

Many of us have seen those compelling "before and after"pandemic pictures of cityscapes around the world. The before pictures show buildings shrouded by pollution while the after pictures reveal majestic mountains or vast stretches of squalid, overcrowded houses in the background. It's like a veil has been lifted allowing us to see more clearly what was there all along.

Support and resources

SafeCampus
Bias Incident Reporting Tool

Bothell
Counseling Center
Student Diversity Center

Seattle
Counseling Center
Let's Talk
Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center

Tacoma
Counseling and Psychological Services
Center for Equity and Inclusion

Employees
CareLink

Periods of upheaval and crisis both test and reveal our character, as individuals, communities and nations. Over the last few weeks and months, I've written about the courage and creativity of so many in our community. I've never been prouder of our faculty, students and staff and I am confident that we can and will continue to learn and grow together, building toward a healthier future for all.

But first, we must seize the clarity this moment offers. Painful though it may be, we must face up to the inequities this pandemic has laid bare, and the ugliness that it has revealed. We ARE all in this together, I wear a mask not to protect me, but to protect you. And it is also unquestionably true, that we are not all on equal footing. There are class and race differences not only in who can work from home, and who must venture out, but in who has kept their job and who hasn't. While low-income and communities of color are more apt to work at jobs that require them to be there in person, these same jobs are less likely to come with health care or sick leave. These communities are more apt to be in neighborhoods characterized by overcrowding and with less access to healthy food choices and recreational activities, conditions that no doubt play a role in the fact that people of color are more apt to suffer complications and even death from COVID-19.

These structural inequities, and the institutional racism that they reflect, create and amplify the conditions that led to the appalling ugliness that we've seen in the last few days and weeks — laid bare once again by ubiquity of cellphone cameras. The post-pandemic goal should not be to go back to the way it was. We must do better. As we enter into a period where a new vigilance around hygiene and closeness will become habitual, and where we measure the consequences of our individual actions not just by their effect on our own health, but on how they might affect our family and friends, let's create a "new normal"where attention to issues of equity becomes habitual as well. In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up – or go back.

Laura, I see you, I hear you. I know the smart, strong, sensitive woman that you are. I know your pain. My brother has been murdered next to yours, leaving a hole in my heart and life that can never be filled. And to you and all Black students, faculty and staff, while I can only imagine what it's like to walk in your shoes because my light skin protects me from your terror, I can and will walk with you.

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor — say their names, see their faces, hear their cries. Weep, then act.

 

FacebookTwitterLinkedInEmailShare
CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2020!
On June 13, graduates, their families and friends will gather from around the world to join in celebrating the Class of 2020 in the University of Washington's first ever live, interactive Commencement webcast.

LEARN MORE
President's Blog 
Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
6 days ago

Empowering people with disabilities requires investment and innovation
1 week ago

Washington's universities are anything but discretionary
1 week ago

American flags on the HUB lawn
A chance to reflect and honor those who gave their lives
2 weeks ago

More
Subscribe

Email
Email

RSS
RSS

PRESIDENT'S TWITTER

INVITE THE PRESIDENT
Want President Ana Mari Cauce to attend your event? Submit a request.
University of Washington
Be boundless
Connect with us:
Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest
Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms
© 2020 University of Washington | Seattle, WA
A MESSAGE TO OUR COMMUNITY
Posted on May 31, 2020
The events happening this week in the Twin Cities, across the nation and here in Madison demonstrate the anger that members of our community feel over years of unequal treatment.  This anger demands meaningful action, particularly for those of us who are in positions of privilege.

I recognize that words condemning the tragic and inexcusable death of George Floyd are not enough. UWPD Chief Kristen Roman and her fellow Dane County chiefs are already engaged with the community to reduce trust gaps and improve safety through the Law Enforcement and Leaders of Color Collaboration. I appreciate the work that UWPD has done to ensure that its training and policies protect and serve our communities of color as effectively as they protect and serve other members of our community.

Our work extends beyond law enforcement to every facet of our institution. Although most of us cannot physically be on campus because of the coronavirus, we continue to work on creating a more inclusive and diverse community through the efforts of Diversity, Equity and Educational Achievement:admissions and recruitment:faculty/staff recruitment and retention:Student Affairs:Human Resources, our schools and colleges as well as within individual departments and units.

Each of us – particularly those of us who do not face the daily challenge of living amid inequity and injustice – must contribute to and lead the change that is needed. There are many ways to become more aware and involved. A list of resources is available on the DDEEA website.

Our campus has a long and proud tradition of helping bring about lasting change through peaceful protest. Thousands of people gathered peacefully at the Capitol Saturday afternoon. Unfortunately, a small number chose to engage in destructive acts that attacked already-struggling local businesses. I condemn this violence:it drowns out the message that needs to be heard and is likely to create backlash and more anger on all sides, rather than promote the changes that are needed.

I urge anyone participating in protests to engage in peaceful activism that drives towards systemic change. Use the power and privilege of your education to speak up, reject hate, racism and violence and use respect to build our community. Please take care for your own safety and those around you in this time of COVID-19.

Finally, I encourage those who are anxious or angry about recent national events to connect with the campus resources that are here to support you. These include the Multicultural Student Center, DDEEA, University Health Services and the Employee Assistance Office.

To our Black and Brown students, staff and faculty, I want to say unambiguously: You belong here, you are important to this campus, your lives matter and I am committed to your safety.

This is a time of unprecedented challenge but I remain steadfast in the belief that together, we can move forward toward a more just future.

POST NAVIGATION
Previous post: Planning for a safe return to campus
Dear UWM Faculty, Staff and Students,

Last Friday, I reaffirmed UWM’s commitment to supporting and protecting our diversity, equity and inclusivity. In the short time since then, we’ve seen our cities, region and nation erupt in protest in response to the killing of George Floyd by a Minneapolis Police Department officer. Voice after voice has joined together to condemn decades of institutional violence, injustice and failures in our criminal justice system. And rightly so.

Let me be clear when I express, both for myself and campus leaders, our strong and clear solidarity in support of black lives and with those who are peacefully protesting. The time for successfully transforming our society is now. We support those who are peacefully protesting and the change they will bring.

Your voices are important, and we care deeply about making positive change.

What actions are we taking now to make a difference?

We have been connecting our students, faculty, staff and others through the multicultural success coaches of the Black Student Cultural Center to ensure that safety and a sense of belonging are addressed, particularly as it relates to our African-American males.
We continue to provide resources on how to engage in both individual and facilitated discussions around racism and anti-racist education.
We continue to work with MKE Fellows, a program that focuses on African-American males before and after their entry to UWM. Contact Ray Anthony Fikes for additional information.
We continue to support our ongoing African-American Male Initiative which serves as an important recruitment and retention tool.
What action will we commit to for the near future?

Going forward and working in partnership with governance groups, we will institute mandatory anti-bias, anti-racism training for all members of the UWM family. More details on this will follow.
To set the tone for future discussions around race, we encourage all to visit the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. This resource is an integral part of our ongoing diversity, equity and inclusion framework.
Once again, let me stress our unequivocally strong stance against racism, violence and oppression. Every person who sets foot on one of our campuses has the right to feel safe, respected and valued.

We see you. You matter. We care.

Best regards,

Mark A. Mone
Chancellor
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Stand with me, stand together: Black Lives Matter
DEPARTMENT(S): 
Office of the President
June 1, 2020
The past several months have presented unprecedented challenges for our community, the nation, and the world. Events of the past week have reminded us that while we are all focused on keeping our loved ones safe and healthy, the underlying inequities within our society remain. In fact, we must acknowledge that societal inequalities are actually being exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic.

The protests of the past few days, ignited by the killing of George Floyd, but truly fueled by the continued targeting, demonization, and abuse of black people across our country, highlight legitimate anger, which I share. The uprising we're now seeing points to the significant work we still have to do as a society to confront and eliminate racism. I stand with those who are outraged at the senseless loss of black lives. I offer my support to those who deal daily with racism and other forms of discrimination. I state unequivocally that Black Lives Matter; that racism, discrimination, and bigotry violate our values as a university and that they will not be tolerated in our community. I ask each of you stand with me, with us, and for your friends, your peers, your students, your neighbors as we seek a path forward. 

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. paraphrased Massachusetts-born abolitionist minister Theodore Parker when he said "The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."That arc feels much too long these days. And we must acknowledge that it won't bend on its own. Each of us, especially those of us who are privileged, must consider how we can contribute to bending the arc toward justice, and do our part to make the universe we want to see. 

There is no perfect answer, no perfect action we can take, because these societal problems run deep and have been created and perpetuated over generations. Nonetheless, I truly believe that our community can and must do more to live our values and advance the causes of justice as we look toward the coming year. I pledge to explore that with you further as we start to come back together in the weeks and months ahead. I welcome your ideas for specific steps that WPI can take as we continue to seek to create a truly equitable community where all are treated with respect, and all can thrive. I know we can make a difference together.

This has been and remains a trying and turbulent time. Both the toll of the virus and the upheaval in the world are real. Dealing with the scale of what we are witnessing is especially challenging because we are not physically together. However, we can still lift one another up through our community. Our resources are here to provide support, including the Student Development & Counseling Center, Office of Multicultural Affairs , the Employee Assistance Program, or simply the comfort of colleagues and friends over Zoom. 

Be safe and well. Standing together we will bend the arc of the universe toward justice.

Laurie

WPI in the World
Global Impact Program
GLOBAL PROJECTS PROGRAM
About 
Let's Answer This Call of Distress
June 2, 2020

Dear Members of the UW Community,

As I am sure you are all seeing in Wyoming or wherever you may be, many communities around the nation are in turmoil in reaction to the killing of George Floyd, and to the history of racism, intolerance and bigotry and their terrible outcomes that this event signifies to people across the nation and across the world. Newspapers and television networks are showing daily what is happening in cities like Minneapolis, New York, Chicago, Washington, D.C., and elsewhere, telling a painful narrative of national upheaval that is perhaps unparalleled since the era of the civil rights movement of the 1960s.

The national reaction is widespread, and certainly not limited to cities. The small university community where I have lived the last six years, amid fields of corn and soybeans, experienced significant peaceful protests to show solidarity with brown, black and other communities. But we also experienced violence, including vandalism, looting and gunshots being fired. All three of our nearby towns of Champaign (pop. 88,000), Urbana (pop. 42,000) and Savoy (pop. 8,400) went under curfew Sunday evening for the first time that anyone I know can recall; a limited reopening of our campus was postponed; and numerous activities, even long-planned events that were to be virtual, including a board meeting I was to attend yesterday, were canceled.

This upheaval is a distress call to us all. It is a distress call that we must continue to be vigilant about the continuing racism, bigotry and intolerance that have no place in our community. It is a distress call from our friends, family and colleagues who, even if they are safe at home in this COVID-19 crisis and are not directly experiencing violence against them at this moment, feel a sympathetic nerve has been touched that causes pain very, very deep inside.

Yesterday, I had emails from two different people expressing the very personal distress they are experiencing as a result of recent events. One, from an African-American colleague, asked us to please know that black and brown people who may seem to be relatively removed from this turmoil are actually experiencing very deeply felt trauma in response to not only the recent events, but to what they signify about our society. She soldiered on and attended meetings, but in her words, "we are not OK" and need support. Another, from international Hispanic communities, urged international members of his research team to be very careful going out of their homes, or better yet, to avoid it completely. So, I ask you all to please think very deeply about these events, and especially to reach out to your friends and colleagues, and ask them how they are.  Ask them what you can do to help them.  Ask them how we together can help address the larger issues that these feelings reveal about our society. And commit to it.

Chief Diversity Officer Emily Monago wrote yesterday to our community to draw attention to these events and to reaffirm the values of the University of Wyoming, and I think it is worth repeating some of her words: "During these unprecedented times, let us remember our University of Wyoming values where racism, violence, sexual violence, antisemitism, homophobia, transphobia, sexism, ableism, national origin, and other forms of disparate treatment, injustices and inequities are denounced. Let us stay committed to our resolve to educate our campus community to interrupt, stop and eliminate inequities, injustices and violence from our society at the local, regional, national and global levels. Let us resolve to be a united community regardless of social identities or beliefs."

I want to reaffirm that the University of Wyoming does, and will continue, to uphold these values. Further, diversity and inclusion make our community strong, vital and vibrant. They are absolutely necessary for the excellence we strive for. They require a commitment from all of us, every day, to embrace our shared university values actively, not passively. And they require a commitment that we care for one another in order to create a sense of well-being across our community. I ask you all to do just this at this time in our history, and to commit with me to continue do everything in your power to ensure that our diverse university community thrives in the future. It will make us all, and the university we serve, better for it.

Sincerely,

President-Designate Edward Seidel




May 30, 2020

Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
Ana Mari Cauce

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do they see a strong, resilient, educated woman?
Do they see someone who is their ancestors' wildest dreams?
Do they see a woman who has friends and family they love?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do you only see my skin color?
Do you only see the stereotypes others created for me?
Do you only see your fear?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

My brothers and sisters are villainized for asking questions.
My brothers and sisters are detained for walking on a public street.
My brothers and sisters are killed for existing.

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

I wonder when I will be harassed for existing.
I wonder when the police will be called to my door.
I wonder when I will be the one mourned.

I'm terrified to go outside.

– Laura Cañate, MBA '18

The last few weeks and months have been a time of jarring contrasts. Community members donating masks sewn by hand to protect essential workers, while mask-free revelers flout distancing mandates at pools and beaches. Groups of armed white demonstrators march against stay-at-home orders at state capitols with impunity, while for Black Americans the simple act of walking down the street, jogging or birdwatching can be fraught with danger, and even end in death. Too many are left to wonder, as does UW MBA alumna Laura Cañate, ‘18, "when I will be the one mourned."

Many of us have seen those compelling "before and after" pandemic pictures of cityscapes around the world. The before pictures show buildings shrouded by pollution while the after pictures reveal majestic mountains or vast stretches of squalid, overcrowded houses in the background. It's like a veil has been lifted allowing us to see more clearly what was there all along.

Support and resources

SafeCampus
Bias Incident Reporting Tool

Bothell
Counseling Center
Student Diversity Center

Seattle
Counseling Center
Let's Talk
Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center

Tacoma
Counseling and Psychological Services
Center for Equity and Inclusion

Employees
CareLink

Periods of upheaval and crisis both test and reveal our character, as individuals, communities and nations. Over the last few weeks and months, I've written about the courage and creativity of so many in our community. I've never been prouder of our faculty, students and staff and I am confident that we can and will continue to learn and grow together, building toward a healthier future for all.

But first, we must seize the clarity this moment offers. Painful though it may be, we must face up to the inequities this pandemic has laid bare, and the ugliness that it has revealed. We ARE all in this together, I wear a mask not to protect me, but to protect you. And it is also unquestionably true, that we are not all on equal footing. There are class and race differences not only in who can work from home, and who must venture out, but in who has kept their job and who hasn't. While low-income and communities of color are more apt to work at jobs that require them to be there in person, these same jobs are less likely to come with health care or sick leave. These communities are more apt to be in neighborhoods characterized by overcrowding and with less access to healthy food choices and recreational activities, conditions that no doubt play a role in the fact that people of color are more apt to suffer complications and even death from COVID-19.

These structural inequities, and the institutional racism that they reflect, create and amplify the conditions that led to the appalling ugliness that we've seen in the last few days and weeks — laid bare once again by ubiquity of cellphone cameras. The post-pandemic goal should not be to go back to the way it was. We must do better. As we enter into a period where a new vigilance around hygiene and closeness will become habitual, and where we measure the consequences of our individual actions not just by their effect on our own health, but on how they might affect our family and friends, let's create a "new normal" where attention to issues of equity becomes habitual as well. In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up – or go back.

Laura, I see you, I hear you. I know the smart, strong, sensitive woman that you are. I know your pain. My brother has been murdered next to yours, leaving a hole in my heart and life that can never be filled. And to you and all Black students, faculty and staff, while I can only imagine what it's like to walk in your shoes because my light skin protects me from your terror, I can and will walk with you.

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor — say their names, see their faces, hear their cries. Weep, then act.
Dear Warrior community,

Yet again our nation is rising in anger and sorrow at another senseless death of a black man, this time due to brutality exhibited during an arrest. I wish to share my thoughts with you about this terrible tragedy.

Unfortunately, racism and the disparate impact of violence in the black community remain national issues, but we should remember that each of these incidents involves real people. George Floyd had family and friends who mourn his death, and dreams that will never be fulfilled. My heart aches for this loss, and my sympathies go out to his loved ones. No person in America — regardless of their race, creed or religion — should ever fear for their life simply because of who they are or how they look.

But the fear is real, because far too often it feels like we’re living the same nightmare. How do we deal with it? We demand better of all citizens, particularly those we trust to keep us safe. We also come together — not in violence, but in protest against violence, and in sympathy for those to whom violence has been committed. The compassionate, inclusive and community-minded ethos that defines Wayne State is one of the things I value most about this university, and we need to draw on it now.

Even though we can’t gather physically to mourn, we can still support each other through the means we have. Wayne State University will host a virtual dialogue on Wednesday, June 3, at 5 p.m. We hope you will join us using this Zoom link (Meeting ID: 831 3199 8274. Password: 598720).

Another reason I write today is to remind you that senseless deaths and mishandling of justice like those we've seen in Minneapolis and Atlanta are precisely why we take racial sensitivity training so seriously with the Wayne State University Police Department. Our officers regularly receive training on how to act in all types of situations, with all types of people. We are now taking the lead in this important training with the establishment of the headquarters of National De-escalation Training Center (NDTC) with Wayne State’s police department. The NDTC has filed for non-profit corporation status with the State of Michigan and has already begun de-escalation training of sworn Wayne State University police officers. The training offered by the NDTC has been specifically developed and designed to exceed traditional de-escalation methods, with the goal of fostering positive interactions with citizens and reducing the number of needless and tragic encounters that result in injuries and deaths to both citizens and police officers. 

Here in Detroit, a city that has been ravaged disproportionately by the coronavirus pandemic, we may feel strongly about the injustice of George Floyd’s murder. We may be tempted to believe that there have been far too many senseless deaths, and that it is vain to hope for a better world. But I urge you not to succumb to despair. As a black man, I have felt personally the sting of racism. Instead of feeling defeated by it, I have sought ways to stand up to it: by mentoring minority students, opening people’s eyes to the benefits of diversity, and devoting my career to researching and addressing health inequities around the globe. I do so because it helps others, and it gives me hope that our country will find a way to reckon with the urgent need for change in how we treat and support one another. Let’s model that change, each of us, by treating each other with love and respect.

Sincerely,





Letter from Chancellor Robinson: Racial Justice
WSSU News & Information

Dear Ram Family,

Against the backdrop of a global pandemic that is disproportionately impacting African Americans, we again find ourselves assailed with horrific images that remind us of the reality of racism in America. While the memories of Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor are still fresh, we experience the video of a white police officer kneeling on George Floyd's neck while Mr. Floyd gasps, "I can't breathe" as his life is snuffed out. We are once again reminded of James Baldwin's writing on the failure of human rights and social justice: "We have emptied oceans with homemade spoons and tore down mountains with our hands."

Black America is accustomed to institutional racism in its many facets; however, it can often seem as though our efforts to eradicate it have too little effect. While I don't condone violence as a means to an end, I do support our fellow citizens' right to peacefully protest the inequities and injustice in our society. The fury and grief that people are feeling speak to the institutionalized intolerance, discrimination, marginalization, and bigotry that have existed in this country—and our world—for centuries. 

But what must be our response to darkness? We must always move together toward the light. We must continue to say yes to life—and it is often found in terrible places like racist policies, beliefs, and practices; nevertheless, that is life. 

James Baldwin once again gives us a path forward: 

"For nothing is fixed, forever and forever and forever, it is not fixed; the earth is always shifting, the light is always changing, the sea does not cease to grind down rock. Generations do not cease to be born, and we are responsible to them because we are the only witness they have.

The sea rises, the light fails, lovers cling to each other, and children cling to us. The moment we cease to hold each other, the moment we break faith with one another, the sea engulfs us and the light goes out."

As I consider this national crisis, I am reminded of our university's rich history and its contributions to the advancement of social justice and equity in our society. Consider our motto: "Enter to Learn. Depart to Serve." Our service as members of the Ram Family can—and should—include helping to eradicate the cancer that is racism in America. As long as we keep the light shining on racism, we have a chance of eliminating it. But we have to stay vigilant, because it's always omnipresent. And we have to hold up one another. 

This journey toward a more enlightened America has been—and will continue to be—a rocky road. We must uplift one another, support one another, and advocate for one another in all spaces and places where we have a voice. We must find ways to protest peacefully, vote and run for office, and commit ourselves anew to the work we do at Winston-Salem State. Our students are the next generation of leaders; we need their energy and effort to carry the torch as we work toward peace, justice, and equality.

 Please know my heart is with you, Rams. Be safe. 

 Sincerely,

Elwood L. Robinson, Ph.D.

Tags: Chancellor
More News

Black lives matter.  We stand with those protesting the racist killing of George Floyd. Too many have been killed: Breonna Taylor, Ahmard Arbery, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice, Quanice Hayes, Aiyana Jones, Eric Garner, Stephon Clark, Sandra Bland, Kendra James, Trayvon Martin, and the list goes on. We stand with those protesting long-standing racial injustice. We are acutely aware that machine learning algorithms trained with data that embodies the racial and social injustices of today will perpetuate and amplify these injustices in the future. Already we have witnessed applications of ML in law enforcement, policing, hiring, healthcare, and education that replicate or amplify existing biases. Any technology that unintentionally or by design marginalizes, excludes, or harms Black communities is damaging and dangerous. We recognize the hard work done by fellow ML researchers to shine light on these ill-conceived applications, and call on the ML community at large to take accountability for the societal impacts and consequences that our technology has on society and the world. Women in Machine Learning (WiML) reaffirms our commitment to promoting diversity and increasing the awareness of women, particularly Black women, in machine learning. n this vein, we want to highlight some impactful groups working to support Black students, researchers, and professionals in machine learning and computer science more broadly: 
@black_in_ai @AJLUnited @BlackGirlsCode @Code2040 @Data4BlackLives @blkintechnology @NSBE If you’re looking for specific ways to support the Black Live Matter movement, check https://blacklivesmatters.carrd.co
If you are looking for information about policing in your local community, check
Campaign Zero https://joincampaignzero.org/solutions and Use of Force Project useofforceproject.org #BlackLivesMatter
Dear Wright State family,

It is not enough to say that Wright State University has an unwavering commitment to diversity and inclusion. I want to express our horror at the tragic and disturbing events that unfurled in Minneapolis this week. This is yet another painful reminder of the persistence of racial inequity and injustice in our country, and it only underscores our responsibility to stand together in solidarity against acts like this and to promote equity and inclusion.

As president of Wright State University, I understand the limitations of a message like this, because it comes at a time when many in our community are in pain and angry. At the same time, I hope you know that I stand with you in these challenging times.

I want to remind our campus community of resources that are available to assist you. I encourage anyone who needs it to reach out to these campus resources to provide you with support, compassion, and understanding.

Wright State students can seek confidential support services through Counseling and Wellness Services by calling 937-775-3407. You can call Raider Cares, a 24-hour crisis phone service, at 833-848-1765 (TTY: 314-485-4345). You also have access to a Crisis Text Line that offers 24-hour, seven-day per week text contact with trained crisis counselors, by texting "LISTEN" to 741-741.

Wright State's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides support services for all employees, regardless of benefit eligibility. EAP services are provided at no cost to employees, and include 24/7 telephone access to licensed and experienced counselors, as well as work/life balance services. Call 800-227-6007 or visit the Impact Solutions website at myimpactsolution.com. Use member username: wsufsap.

Diversity is one of our greatest strengths. Our diversity of thought, culture, background, and experiences fuel our community's ability to thrive in uncertain times, consider thought-provoking opinions without incident, and nurture one another when confronted by great challenges.

We will never fail when we face our challenges together. We stand together.

Sue

Dear Members of the Yale Community,

I write to you today deeply upset by the killing of George Floyd while he was in the custody of Minneapolis police officers. Mr. Floyd's death follows a pattern of racial injustice that has become too familiar in our country and that amounts to a national emergency.

At a time when the American community must come together more than ever before, George Floyd's horrifying death shocks our shared conscience and indicts our shared failure. It can and must remind us of other similar killings and of the racism, nativism, and bigotry too pervasive in society today and throughout our country's history.

Over the past week, I have been thinking about two seemingly incongruous things—our sense of community and one of our most basic emotions: fear.

Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, legitimate fear has been very much with us, but not just about the virus itself, and not among us equally. From reports of racism against people of Asian descent to the unacceptable disparities in health outcomes and health care, there was every reason for us to fear for the safety of our neighbors and family members, and of some, sadly, more than of others.

At the same time, I saw nurses, doctors, support staff, and volunteers act with courage, selflessness, and compassion in our home city and around the world. We nurtured a growing sense of community, which gave us the optimism and hope that must ever be a cornerstone of our beloved country. It is in the face of that noble expression of solidarity that George Floyd's death has shaken us and the shared spirit of heroism we have aroused to fight the pandemic.

As I read the news reports of Mr. Floyd's death and its explosive response, I knew that many members of our community feel fear in their daily lives because of the injustices they have experienced and witnessed, and I thought of how fear so reliably leads to anxiety, depression, health deterioration, and anger, and also to aggression and even violence. Some of the protests have turned destructive, undermining the plea for justice all Americans must share. Fear is powerful, damaging, and unpredictable in its effects.

I believe that all of us at Yale must do what we can to replace fear with hope—and not with anything less than action. Here I have been thinking much of the life of the extraordinary Pauli Murray, a lawyer, civil rights leader, and Yale Law School graduate. She experienced firsthand the cruelties of racial segregation and suffered injustices. She knew fear. However, she wrote in her memoir, "Seeing the relationship between my personal cause and the universal cause of freedom released me from a sense of isolation…I would be no less afraid to challenge the system of racial segregation, but the heightened significance of my cause would impel me to act in spite of my fears."

I have implored myself—and earnestly invite you to do the same— to make direct use of Pauli Murray's wisdom. Her words remind us of all that we have been able to accomplish together because of our shared commitment to the common good. Since mid-March, we have saved lives in this pandemic. We have isolated ourselves, changed the way we live, and sacrificed to safeguard the well-being of the most vulnerable among us and prevent our hospitals from becoming overwhelmed. It is vital to remember that we have been united in easing suffering, improving lives, and providing hope during a turbulent and challenging period of our history. If we can do this, we are capable, all of us, of creating the America we must insist belongs to us all.

In 1945, Pauli Murray wrote, "As an American I inherit the magnificent tradition of an endless march toward freedom and toward the dignity of all mankind." We have so much more to do to foster and sustain an equitable society. Instead of feeling the isolating effects of fear when our sense of community is shaken, we must remember that we are connected in more ways than we are divided. And that where we are divided, we must work, now, in the interest of unity and justice. This is a matter of the highest importance.

So, let us act as Pauli Murray would have us act toward those we know well but also those to whom we are connected simply by a common and powerful dream. I am grateful that you and I share Yale and its mission to improve the world today and for future generations. In looking forward to the work we have ahead of us, I wish you peace and strength.

With best wishes for your health and safety,

Peter Salovey
President
Chris Argyris Professor of Psychology
We are of our community – and our community is in pain. We cannot escape the problems of society – for we carry the successes and challenges of our community with us wherever we go. Left unchecked, racism, sexism, homophobia, and fear of the other can enter any organization or community – and destroy the foundations upon which we must build our future.

The past few harrowing days have laid bare how a lack of trust, respect, and leadership can tear at our social fabric. In these times, we must pull together and provide leadership in our own communities. Leadership is not about having all of the answers. It starts with unwavering principles that can steady us when the world seems unbalanced.

With all that is happening around us, let us recommit AAAS to these relevant principles:

    Diversity, equity, and inclusion along every axis are critical for our organization, the scientific enterprise, and our community to progress
    Ensuring lasting diversity, equity, and inclusion requires going beyond intervention to systemic change
    Systemic change begins with everyone feeling safe and respected
    Hatred, discrimination, and injustice have no place at AAAS, in science, or in our community

Let us recommit ourselves to these principles and rededicate ourselves to the mission of advancing science and serving society. Society needs us more than ever.

The coming weeks and months will bring further unprecedented challenges to us and our communities. What we do in this time will define us for a generation. In the face of national uncertainty, I am confident in this team’s ability to be a force for science, a force for good, and a support for one another. Our programs, publications, and advocacy are critical to a better and more just world. Your support makes each of these possible.

Nevertheless, a torrent of emotion has been unleashed in the last few days. It is understandable to feel anger, sadness, and helplessness. Many of us have been deeply impacted by these events. It is my hope that we come together as colleagues and friends to support one another. Science, scientists, and science advocates are going to be critical to ensuring we successfully navigate this troubled time together

"In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up — or go back."
ACM Stands with Those who promote inclusivity
In the United States, and throughout many regions around the world, current events have brought attention to the urgent need for equality and respect for all individuals. ACM reaffirms its commitment to fostering diversity and inclusion within the global computer science community.

As an international organization of nearly 100,000 professionals, ACM respects the essential worth of all people and firmly believes that diversity strengthens the scientific enterprise and society as a whole. ACM’s Code of Professional Ethics embodies these principles, and our Diversity and Inclusion Council works to translate them into effective action.

ACM is committed to creating an environment that welcomes new ideas and perspectives, and where hostility or other harmful behaviors are not tolerated. As an organization, we stand with those who promote inclusivity.


The AISES family shares in the pain and grief of the black community resulting from the murder of George Floyd and the long history of oppression and violence against their communities. As indigenous people, at AISES, we are guided by the traditional knowledge of our ancestors who have lived and died upon these lands since time immemorial. Among this knowledge is the deep understanding that "we are all related." It is this respect for relationships and community that guides AISES' programs and partnerships. For example, for several years now, AISES has been a part of the 50k Coalition alongside the National Society of Black Engineers, the Society of Women Engineers, and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers. Through partnerships like this, we have come to understand that our combined communities are stronger together. We have come to recognize that we are all working toward the same goals – diversity, equity, and inclusion for all communities and have learned that we can support one another through the adversity and challenges our communities face day in and day out. As such, today and every day, we stand with our black brothers and sisters in solidarity against the continued violence and systemic oppression of their communities. #blacklivesmatter

What do we tell our children, our students?
- Expressions from Alabama State University President, Dr. Quinton T. Ross Jr., on recent national events surrounding the death of George Floyd.
- By Dr. Quinton T. Ross Jr., President of Alabama State University.

"For the past few days, I, like many others have been viewing through the lens of the media, the reaction of our country to the deplorable and senseless death of yet another defenseless black person at the hands of a white police officer, a tragic mockery to the truth that Black Lives Matter. Similar to other Americans, I am overcome with a range of emotions.

As the father of two sons and as a black man myself, I can assure you that I am furious and deeply saddened by the death of George Floyd, as I am by every senseless killing of black males and females in America. It could have been either of my sons, my brothers, my nephews or nieces, my friends or even one of my students who lay on the ground, pleading for mercy on that horrific day. 

Looking into the eyes of my 11-year-old son and trying to help him comprehend what happened and what is happening in our nation, I am cognizant of the fact that I am old enough only to have read about the many civil rights protests and nonviolent demonstrations that have afforded me the opportunities that I have enjoyed during my lifetime.  While I was not an eyewitness to the protests, I do try to paint a picture for my son, drawing from my exposure to many civil rights icons and their recounting of historic events of the past, such as the Montgomery Bus Boycott, the march from Selma to Montgomery, the brutality of law enforcement officers such as Bull Connor and the story of Ruby Bridges. I am emotionally distraught about the stark parallel of our nation's present state of affairs and our nation's historical past.

I have been giving thought to this national crisis, especially as it relates to Alabama State University's rich history and her overwhelming contributions to the advancement of civil rights in the nation.  I am one of thousands of students who have matriculated and emerged from ASU with purpose and a true understanding of social justice and responsibility. At ASU, we learned the importance and the power of the vote.  The call to public service and advocacy was ingrained in our DNA by O' Mother Dear.

While I attempt to give some sensible explanation to the most recent senseless acts of brutality, I have reflected on my first real encounter with the reality of racist police violence against blacks in America.  It was the spring of 1991, just prior to my senior year in college, and I had just been elected President of the Student Government Association. This was the time that our nation witnessed Rodney King being brutally beaten by Los Angeles law enforcement officers after he led them on a high-speed chase.  I remember asking myself, "Is this what would happen to me as a black man if I found myself in a similar situation with authorities?" I vividly recall how the nation erupted into protests because of Rodney King's mistreatment, just like the protests that have erupted nationally because of the senseless death of George Floyd and others. Each incident is similar to the protests that happened across this nation in the 1960s due to social injustice.  As a young student, I was confused and enraged by what I witnessed. I remember the rumbling of unrest within our student body regarding Rodney King. We were all ready to act on our anger and frustration by taking to the streets of Montgomery to let our voices be heard.  Word of our intentions reached our President, the late Dr. C. C. Baker, who later became one of my mentors. My SGA leadership team and I were summoned to Dr. Baker's office, and it was there that I learned what social protesting was really all about. It is not about the destruction of property, looting or acting disorderly; it is about banding together peacefully with a common goal, with a purpose and a plan for change.  During the meeting, we discussed our desire to be heard and our passion for change, and emerged with a plan for a peaceful protest on the campus that historically has been a beacon for change—our home, our haven—Alabama State University.  This focusing event allowed me to lead my first press conference. It would be the first time I had ever spoken in front of news cameras. Every news outlet in the city was on campus that day as students gathered with community stakeholders in great numbers. I led the protest with a speech. Students and local elected officials were also able to have their voices heard as the media captured our impassioned sentiments and broadcast the event.  I share this personal experience not only to highlight the importance of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) in providing a platform for change, but also to emphasize the need to protest peacefully and with a purpose.

I offer that advice while understanding and even relating to the rage that has been unleashed across the nation by the infection of racism that is more potent than ever in America. Our nation has a new and improved infection of racism when George Floyd can plead for mercy while dying publicly under the force of a racist man's knee just as his forefathers died publicly hanging from a noose. There is a new and improved infection of racism when a young man by the name of Michael Brown can hold his hands up in surrender and still be shot to death in broad daylight in Ferguson, Missouri. There is a new and improved infection of racism when a man by the name of Eric Garner in New York City can tell authorities "I can't breathe"as he is choked to death.  The infection of racism is new and improved when a young man by the name of Trayvon Martin is gunned down in cold blood while walking from the store to his home. Racism is new and improved when Ahmaud Arbery can be gunned down while jogging not far from his home. There is a new and improved infection of racism when Breonna Taylor can be shot and killed by police officers as she lay sleeping in her apartment in Louisville, Kentucky. Let us not forget the infection of racism that related to the death of Sandra Bland, who was found hanged in a jail cell in Walker County, Texas, after being arrested for a minor traffic stop. Here in Montgomery, there is a new and improved infection of racism when a man by the name of Greg Gunn, who attended ASU, is chased and killed by a police officer just a few steps from his mother's front door. Their tragic deaths made headlines, but across this nation and even in this city, we could easily add more names to the rolls of those whose lives have been so tragically cut short with no cell phone cameras to capture their last, painful breaths.

With this in mind, we struggle with the question, "What should we tell our students?"The answer that I offer you is the same that I give to my sons. I ask that you find ways to protest peacefully, including exercising your personal responsibility to register to vote and then go vote, and committing yourself to continuing your education so that you are prepared to emerge as this nation's next generation of leaders. I ask that you resist the temptation to channel your anger into destruction; instead, channel your energy into the very thing that disturbs and disrupts those who would oppress you: Education.

Our nonviolent stand proved successful in the past, and I believe it could be the catalyst for real and impactful change today. Let peace be at the core of all of our actions.

While it seems as though remaining calm in the midst of a racist storm is a signal to be disrespected, disregarded and endangered, remember the lives that were lost to get us to this day. Remember the examples of those who were brutally beaten and rose up from that brutality to walk the halls of congress, to become mayors, governors, state legislators and community leaders. They are the ones upon whose shoulders we stand. Their sacrifices have afforded us the opportunity to stand and take up the mantle of peace, justice and equality for all. 

Stay in the fight against injustice my children and my students, with peace, purpose and a plan that saves us from self-destruction and allows us all to "breathe"freely."

News media contact: Kenneth Mullinax, 334-229-4104.



Our students, like Rondriquez White, who is also the co-founder of the Nashville Chapter of Black Lives Matter, are and always have been on the front lines of change in our country's history. As an organizer of this weekend's protest when asked about the extreme heat index by the media White says, "The temperature we face, the oppression that we face is even hotter."
As the U.S grapples with the murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbury and many other black men and women, it is during this painful time that we explicitly condemn racism and systematic oppression, and call for genuine change. We stand with the Black community and against anti-Blackness.
AnitaB.org was founded to increase the representation of women in in technology and ensure that women’s voices play a key role in shaping the future of the industry-and the extension of the world.
In the past, living mission-while created with the most progressive intentions- has sometimes fallen short of supporting every woman. Like many organizations’ histories, ours holds moments of erasure when it comes to uplifting Black people and women, the people who need it the most. We are working hard to live our values, both within our organization and as we work with our Partners to do the same.
We cannot allow this moment to pass us by and call our Partners to take action, including:
•        Increase your diversity. Hire Black people.
•        Contribute to the organizations that support the promotion of Black and other marginalized people.
•        Partner with public officials to change laws and policing to protect everyone.
•        Support protestors throughout the country by donating to bail funds.
The time is now to change our culture, create a more equal society and move forward together.
#BlackLivesMatter

So, here we are in 2020, painfully and acutely realizing that the long-held ideals of our nation, as embodied in the Constitution's aspirations of the right to equal justice, the right to pursue happiness and the right to individual liberty, are, in fact, unfairly and inequitably distributed across our society. This, of course, has been a reality since the founding of our Republic and, although we have made progress through our struggles and our changes, it is nonetheless jolting to see these inequalities manifested through the unfair treatment of individuals based on their race and ethnicity by the very government designed to protect and defend their rights as citizens.

The blatant abuse of power by the police as exhibited in the case of George Floyd, and many others, is in many ways akin to the actual abuses of power perpetrated against Americans in ways that led to the revolution against Great Britain. The very founding of our nation was a result of these mistreatments by the ruling government itself at the time.

Individuals have rights, the government must protect those rights, and the government must not be involved in injuring or diminishing those rights, particularly in its exertion of power towards its people.

The Constitution of the United States is perhaps the most important aspirational document ever written and codified by humans to govern themselves, particularly in the sense that it leaves very little to doubt about its goals of equality, justice, liberty, and the ability to pursue happiness by the individual as its purpose. That document, the Constitution, is in and of itself our collective aspirational goal, the society we wish we could be as a people. Can we find ways in all that we do, including policing, education, and social welfare, to meet the ideals of that Constitution and all that it stands for? The answer is no, unless we are willing to face our failings, call out our injustices, and drive towards the changes needed to achieve the common goals America was built to achieve.

In August 1963, on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King in his globally noted and socially profound "I Have A Dream"speech, outlined exactly this concept of aspiration. Dr. King used the "dream"concept to describe a world in the future in which the actual articulation of the aspirations of the Constitution could be realized in every person's life regardless of their race, ethnicity, religion, or social class. He did this with a level of eloquent intensity that set the stage for the pursuit of further attainment of the American constitutional aspirations. He knew the aspirations; he knew the intent of the words and the concepts; he knew the philosophies on which they were based and that they were substantial and powerful in terms of what is a human being; he knew the struggles that preceded in the evolution of the United States; and he knew the struggle that he was a part of as a leader of the Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s, which ultimately cost him his own life.

The key point here by Dr. King, and I think the key point of the Constitution itself, goes well beyond any interpretation of the Constitution by a particular sitting Supreme Court, for as we know many of those interpretations from the past would be found today to be appalling, but rather towards the idea of fighting for and driving toward and working toward our national aspirational goals, particularly of equality and justice.

We, the university community broadly and Arizona State University specifically, are, in fact, an aspirational institution and we have, in fact, been woefully inadequate, up to this point, in our own efforts to facilitate the means by which higher aspirational attainment might be achieved for these central goals to our society. This is particularly true as we have grown and diversified as a society.

At ASU, we have taken to heart the notion of designing and building the "New American University,"a university built on the notion of maximum social inclusion, maximum academic excellence, and maximum impact on serving our communities all from the same institution. In the last 15–20 years, Arizona State University students have become representative of the totality of the diversity of our society, and we have altered the functional way in which we operate to help bring about this "New America,"this aspirational attainment of our core values, as stated through the U.S. Constitution. But, even with that, we have been too slow in the concept of redesigning, reconceptualizing, restaffing, re-empowering and enabling the institutions that we, the university more broadly and ASU more specifically, have helped to design, create, staff, and assess. Our institutions are not living up to our hopes. They are not yet as capable as they need to be to reach our collective dream.

Why is it that we still have systems and institutions that can carry out and often justify injustices in the name of the people? Why is it that we have inadequate learning and empowerment opportunities in so many areas of our society? Why do we have police officers so inadequately trained that groups of them can stand by while a person is murdered in a public display of abuse of authority? Why do we not have enough new tools for enhancing the outcomes of our criminal justice system or enough new ideas and solutions about how to address drug addiction and other powerfully negative forces at work in our society? Why have universities become increasingly elitist organizations drawing only from the cream of the cream of our society or from families producing "learning elites"from significant amounts of personal wealth and personal networks? These and many other questions are questions that we can and should not only address but attack and begin to resolve.

But, in spite of all of our efforts, we still have insufficient ideas for social transformation where it might make the most positive difference in terms of accelerating the rate of change and accelerating the rate of enhanced social justice and accelerating the rate of enhanced pursuit of happiness across as much of our society as is possible. We need to do more.

To do more, I am asking our deans and faculty and students of all of our ASU colleges to outline new initiatives, new programs, and new designs that we can initiate with our own resources and then pursue additional partners in creating and deploying new solutions. Our Watts College of Public Service and Community Solutions, our Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law, our School of Social Transformation, our Mary Lou Fulton Teachers College, and other critical ASU academic communities can outline new efforts, new concepts, and new strategies to devise new models for protecting and defending the rights of individuals; new methods, new concepts, and new tools for policing; models for justice and the law that are, in fact, implementable throughout the process and not only after injustices have occurred.

All of our schools and all of our programs, as well as all of our faculty, can engage in this process of new ideas, new designs, and new concepts, while we, as Arizona State University, continue to strive towards our aspirational goal of being the highest quality, highest performing, most egalitarian university operating across the breadth of our society that we possibly can be.

To do this, I am asking that the deans engage in a college-by-college process and that the student leaders also engage in a process for specific new initiatives that we can undertake. I would like to be able to review these aspirational attainment ideas before the opening of the fall semester so that we might get some new energy focused here as faculty and students reassemble.

If, in the interim, there are immediate ideas or immediate actions, get those to me straightaway.

My hope is that we can take a good hard look at our own intellectual underpinnings here and ask ourselves, "are there things that we can do differently or designs that we can produce or teaching and learning that we can alter that can help produce new and better aspirational attainment for the goals of our country?"

I look forward to our moving forward as soon as possible with new efforts. 


We are the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE). We take each of those words and our collective identity very seriously.
We're American. We recall that this nation was born in rebellion to oppressive tyranny and that no oppressor has ever gladly surrendered his position. We're American. We know that nativism has never been our strength; rather we have embraced the world and taken our strength from all the peoples of the world, including those who were already here.
We are a Society. We are a community of shared interests and purposes. Prominent among our shared interests is diversity, equity, and inclusion. We have spoken out forcefully in this regard time and time again including our February 1, 2017 statement on the US President's executive orders on immigration.
We are Engineers. We understand that diversity, equity, and inclusion are essential to the quality of what engineers produce. It's not a "nice to have"—it is essential. Circumstances or actions that impede diversity, equity, and inclusion are inimical to good engineering practice.
We are Educators. Whether we stand in research labs, classrooms, factory floors, or boardrooms, we seek to enlighten others to what we know and what we are learning. We seek to facilitate opportunities for all to learn to the best of their abilities, and to hold ourselves accountable for the quality of our facilitation. We recognize historical and systemic inequities in opportunities and preparation to learn and seek to ensure equitable access and success in education.
The murder of Mr. George Floyd, like that of so many others before him, was a heinous act. But it was not a singular act, or an isolated act. It was part of a pervasive pattern and practice of learned, ingrained, and automatic behaviors that have and will require persistent, consistent, and resistant action to limit and eventually reverse.
We recognize our limitations, but believe that by working together as ASEE members and in collaboration with others, we can contribute to advancing and sustaining the deep and wide change that will be necessary for this nation to begin to achieve the aspirational words that are the preamble to the US Constitution – . . . forming a more perfect Union, establishing Justice, insuring domestic Tranquility, . . . promoting the general Welfare, and securing the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity . . .
Our nation is hurting. For the last few months, we have hurt physically, financially and otherwise from the coronavirus. Now, recent events of racial injustice are hurting us in many ways that words often find inadequate to fully express.

While we acknowledge the painful reality that prejudice and bigotry exist, we stand resolute that they have no place in the Auburn Family. As an institution that values and embraces each individual, we oppose hate and exclusion and acts that promote them.

It was on my heart to reaffirm Auburn’s values. I’m confident that we, together, will work toward change and healing.

To the families, friends and loved ones of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery, we extend our deepest sympathy. Our hearts ache for both the nation we have worked to make more just and equitable and for the city we love and call home. Through our grief for the countless known and unknown victims of systematic racism, we continue to pray that we can use this moment to shine light in our communities. This is not the moment to fall into despair. The world needs our leadership and love. As our forefathers and mothers from the Atlanta Student Movement, the larger Civil Rights Movement, and every struggle for justice in America have shown us, we accomplish great things when we act in solidarity with those who fight for freedom and push America to live up to its promise.

For well over a century, the institutions of the Atlanta University Center have worked to use the light of knowledge to guide the nation out of dark times. The very existence of Clark Atlanta University, Morehouse College, Morehouse School of Medicine, and Spelman College is a form of protest in itself—a recognition that education can illuminate the path to justice and equality and a demand that it be available to the sons and daughters of the diaspora. While we are proud of the leaders in every field our institutions have sent forth into the workforce, we are even prouder of their preparation to carry forward the hard work of making the world better through ideas, innovation, creativity, courage, and determination.

What can we do, individually and as the AUC community? What is the way forward? What are the difficult conversations we need to have and with whom? What are the action plans we need to craft? These are the challenges in the days and weeks ahead. Together, we must continue to thoughtfully engage in the hard work of creating positive change in our communities and across our nation.




I write when I am bothered...I am bothered tonight.
All day, I have watched social media and news with horror as protests borne out of an act of racial violence – the murder of George Floyd - turned to violent demonstrations and even riots. As an African American I fully understand the hurt, anger and utter frustration that drives us to this point. The psychological trauma inflicted on African Americans every time a black life is cut short unnecessarily by a uniformed officer, cannot be understated, nor can it be dismissed. However, we must govern ourselves strategically and with discipline. We are strong, resilient, committed and brilliant. We must organize, plan and use our collective voices to bring about the change we seek.

I am asking you to do three (3) things:

1) Control Your Coins - Consistent, sustained economic pressure. We must stop spending and investing our money into businesses that do not respect and appreciate our buying power. Do not shop in stores where you are followed, ignored or treated rudely. We must never reward ignorance or disrespect. Today we have seen individuals post cruel and racist statements, jokes and pictures. Take note of where those people work. Report them and refuse to support the businesses that employ them.

2) VOTE. NEVER allow an election to occur without casting your VOTE. Educate yourself on the issues that impact our communities and vote out prosecutors and other elected officials who turn a deaf ear on the needs of our people. Attend candidate forums, write letters, attend meetings, volunteer and yes, donate to the campaigns of the candidates you believe in. History has demonstrated that we are a powerful voting block and when we show up!

For many Americans, and for Black Americans in particular, the very soul of the nation seems in peril at the moment. 
The horrific murder of George Floyd, captured in all its public, brutal clarity, serves as a stark reminder of the divergences between the highest ideals of our society as posited by our founders and the stark, 400-year reality for black, brown and native Americans.  It is also a reminder of the fragility of the very lives of black people, including the life of Breonna Taylor, when intertwined with the nation’s criminal justice system. It begs the question: Why is this still happening?
At the same time, we reel from the disproportionate impacts on our community of COVID-19. The higher percentage of death and sickness is overwhelming. The accompanying, record-setting unemployment and economic hardship serve as a painful reminder of just some of the profound and enduring inequities in our society.

There is a great deal of pain. The protests around the country are manifestations of a cumulative national despair.  There is a well-earned weariness here – our community and those who support it have a right to be tired, frustrated and angry.  At the same time, the protests reflect a determination to make positive change, no matter the fatigue.   As our esteemed founder, Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune, teaches us, we must be resilient. We must be energetic in not accepting the status quo, and in not letting it deprive us of our future.  We can define society up.      
And with those protests, we condemn the violence and looting of the few and celebrate the voice of the many. We hold ourselves to a higher standard. We are also watchful of the reaction of authorities and our leaders—who themselves should be held to the same high standard.
We are reminded that great institutions like B-CU, born of trauma, poverty and racism, are very much on the front lines of enabling America to fulfill its highest aims and aspirations. B-CU and other HBCUs serve as both the mirror to and the conscience of the American ideal. The role our institutions assume in serving and healing America—and the role our amazing students will assume as future leaders—has never been more critical or evident.   
At B-CU, we serve students by intentionally exposing them to ideas and experiences that will enable them to discern between what is right and what is easy, and to recognize that with the education they receive, comes a responsibility to a greater good.  B-CU fulfills its mission, in part, by bridging the gap between talent and ability, and access and opportunity.  We serve this nation through harnessing the inextricable linkages – the shared existence – that many of us hold with the communities in which our institutions were born.  For B-CU, that happens to be the former city dump, Hell’s Hole, which was the only land available to our founder. Through determination, faith and a legacy of love she transformed it into our beautiful, enduring university campus.      
In the midst of our collective national trauma, B-CU will continue to live the ideals of its founder.  We will unconditionally love and support our students and one another.  We will do what we have always done – we will rise, support one another and we will affirm the very best of who we are and have always been as a community.   



The unrest following the abhorrent viral video of George Floyd’s murder has led many of us to have real conversations with our children and families about the ugly reality of racism in America; leaving a sense of hopelessness.

How can we tell our girls (and boys) they have the capability to become the next tech CEO and in the same breath detail precautions to take when encountering individuals who are supposed to protect and serve? How can we encourage our girls to show up in society as their authentic selves when we bear witness to countless incidents that illustrate the disregard for Black humanity? How do we tell our girls there are no limits on their dreams when even in the year 2020 racial barriers continue to pervade our daily lives? There is no specific code for how to handle these traumatic incidents when they arise, but we know it starts with being intentional about keeping our children informed, empowered, and hopeful.

At Black Girls CODE, the core of our mission is to empower young women of color between the ages of 7–17 to embrace the current tech marketplace as builders and creators by introducing them to skills in computer programming and technology. Yet the foundation of our work is about so much more than just teaching our girls to write a line of code. The focus of our work is centered on teaching our girls to embrace self-actualization, self-confidence, and self efficacy; we uplift racial justice and equity so that our girls can not only survive but thrive within spaces in the fullness of their unique selves.

We must not let these incidents diminish their sense of pride, but rather use them as fuel to face these obstacles head-on, go further, reach higher and rise. Staying true to the vision of creating brighter futures for our girls, our organization will be here to support our community through this difficult time and for every step on the journey towards healing. We want to express our gratitude to those who have rallied around BGC and have made contributions to ensure we can continue to do meaningful work, especially amid uncertain times.

At times like these we are even more assured that our work is timely and relevant. We will push on together to create space for a better world for our girls, their families, and the beloved community.
Blackcomputerher:
To our community: we are with you, and we are here for you. We are also working on new programming to support you and keep us connected. We'll share more soon, but in the meantime, stay safe and take care of yourselves. 

The Bluefield State College community is united in mourning the tragic and senseless death of George Floyd. Each of us should be deeply saddened by the hate that was expressed by this terrible act. The late Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. said, "We must learn to live together as brothers or we will perish together as fools." Racial discrimination cannot be tolerated in America. Bluefield State is a Historically Black College that serves a population that is diverse, but we are a community where each member must passionately embrace the belief that people of color cannot continue to suffer because of racism. We MUST resolve to love our brother, because hatred can destroy us all. The journey forward can only be made with heartfelt, lifelong, commitment to love, to forgive and to ask for forgiveness, and to listen and learn. We lift up our collective prayers for Mr. Floyd and his family, for the African American community- both locally and nationally- and for each other. The journey will be challenging, but it can also be infinitely rewarding. As Dr. King noted, "You don't have to see the whole staircase, just take the first step." -President, Robin Capehart, Bluefield State College
In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic and our efforts to restore campus operations, our nation has been rocked by acts of violence and ensuing unrest and disruption that have now occurred here in Boston. We are confronted, once again, by the grim reality of systemic racism in our country. The killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and others bring to the forefront these abhorrent elements in our society. At a time when we rely on our police more than ever, we watch painful examples of some officers breaking the public trust in the most egregious ways. These injustices are amplified by the vividly disparate impact of COVID-19 on African Americans in particular, as well as on other ethnic or minority communities.

We grieve for our country and those who are affected by systemic racism, just as we grieve for those afflicted by COVID-19. We will defeat COVID-19 using science and our collective will. We must commit the same will and energy to defeat systemic racism. We must reject the forces in our society that are driving us apart and commit ourselves to creating a just society.

In the current troubled climate, I believe our commitment to restoring our residential campus is made all the more important by the divisions in our country. We are working nonstop to restore campus operations for the fall and will shortly make more detailed announcements about this effort. This is critical because our residential community brings together students from every background to live and learn together, with our faculty, in an atmosphere that promotes mutual understanding and respect. And we are continually working to do this better for all members of the Boston University community. As I write you today, I recall the two months last spring when we witnessed the uniting effect on our community of the expanded Howard Thurman Center for Common Ground, before campus life was abruptly interrupted by the virus. Our return to our residential campus and our personal interactions with one another that are not mediated by a computer screen is essential to the critical work we must undertake to build a campus, a community, and a society that is free from systemic racism.

When we return to Commonwealth Avenue, life on campus will not look or be the same as it was last fall, but we can create a learning community that preserves Boston University as a beacon for the country and world. Such beacons are desperately needed in our country today. I look forward to welcoming you back to campus.
The tragic events unfolding in Minneapolis are yet another reminder that systemic discrimination and violence against African Americans still plague our society.

Since its founding, our Bowie State University community has stood for the inclusion of diverse cultures and voices, and has wholeheartedly condemned acts of violence and incivility. I am deeply troubled by the tragic death of another African American male, George Floyd, in Minneapolis and the rioting that is occurring in response.

We must not let this tragedy go unnoticed. I encourage the BSU community to continue listening to the voices of people of all races that are crying out for change. While I am disheartened by the events in Minneapolis, I know we are stronger when we stand together and use our voices for what we know is right and just for all.



George Floyd's killing was cruel, inhumane, and contemptible. The injustice of violence against black people must stop.

The history of our great university is intertwined with the pursuit of justice. Brandeis was created in response to antisemitism and bigotry. We cannot tolerate discrimination, hatred, or violence against another person based on their race, religion, or background. These values are as important today as they were at our founding.

These are not just words or noble ideas. These are principles that inspire us at Brandeis to educate, to learn, and to act.

With that in mind, I join with Mark Brimhall-Vargas, chief diversity officer, in calling for us to come together, even if virtually. In the message Mark sent on Friday, he mentioned two different events happening this week. The Heller School is hosting a conference, "Co-Constructing Racial Justice through Life and Work."And Mark will host "Coming Together to Face Systemic Racism."I hope you will join me in attending both.

As Brandeisians, not all of our experiences are shared ones. We come from different backgrounds and have different perspectives. But I know that there are some things we have in common. This includes an unwavering commitment to justice, equity, and inclusion. It includes respecting other people, no matter their background.

I hope to see you at one of the events tomorrow or the next day. Let us come together to express our commitment to ending racist violence.
We write to you today as leaders of this university to express first deep sadness, but also anger, regarding the racist incidents that continue to cut short the lives of black people every day.

The sadness comes from knowing that this is not a mere moment for our country. This is historical, lasting and persistent. Structures of power, deep-rooted histories of oppression, as well as prejudice, outright bigotry and hate, directly and personally affect the lives of millions of people in this nation every minute and every hour. Black people continue to live in fear for themselves, their children and their communities, at times in fear of the very systems and structures that are supposed to be in place to ensure safety and justice.

The anger comes from knowing that we have been here before, and in fact have never left. Rallies and protests across the country are raising voices about ongoing injustice in the wake of the killings of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, Breonna Taylor in Louisville, KY, and George Floyd in Minneapolis. As a nation, we might have thought there would be some real change after the deaths of Freddie Gray and Sandra Bland, both who died in police custody in 2015, a year in which some justice organizations reported more than 100 police shootings of unarmed black people in the United States. And this was after our nation mourned and protested the ongoing epidemic of racism with the 2014 deaths of Michael Brown, Eric Garner, Tamir Rice and countless others before and after that year.

All of these deaths "launched national conversations"about anti-black racism. And we know that so many in our community keep asking how many times these conversations have to happen before there is real change. We know there are so many in our community hurting and deeply frustrated, and things are made worse by a pandemic that doesn't allow us to be together and is disproportionately killing black people. We have not been able to gather in some of the ways that usually unite us to build collective understanding, mourn and make calls for action.

We hope that wherever you may be, you seek to effect change in your communities in the ways that make sense for you while preserving your health and safety in this time of COVID-19. And this does not apply only to members of our community residing in the United States. Tragic and traumatic examples of injustice against racial, ethnic and religious minorities persist around the world, resulting in horrific instances of brutality, incarceration and death. Our local and national government leaders need to hear from us as individual constituents in their communities consistently and persistently on issues of racial and ethnic injustice.

As a university, we have tremendous resources in our departments, centers and institutes that can help our community and our society interrogate the persistent and deeply disturbing issues related to race, racism and police violence in America. In the weeks and months to come, we will leverage the expertise of our faculty, staff and students to develop programming, courses and research opportunities designed to advance knowledge and promote essential change in policy and practice in the name of equity and justice.

We are a community that does not condone acts of racism, discrimination or violence. This cannot be accepted as "normal."We must continue to demand equity and justice for all people, inclusive of all identities. And we must continue to care for and support each other, especially in this time when we are apart.
George Floyd was killed last week by someone sworn to protect him – someone sworn to protect all of us and the liberties we enjoy. It was evil and ugly. And as Mr. Floyd begged to be allowed to breathe, other officers stood by and did nothing. 
Over the past week, I've been reflecting, like a lot of Americans. What should we do – and what should I do – in the face of evil? Americans are understandably very angry, and some have chosen to protest. The right to protest is among our most cherished freedoms, and I respect all who do so nonviolently.
Over the last few days, I have met with small groups of UTEP students, faculty, staff and alumni. I talked to them about their experiences at UTEP and in El Paso to learn if there were concerns about racism on our campus, and particularly in our campus police force.
I was pleased that, generally, people feel safe here, and they don't think that there is a problem in the UTEP police force. "El Paso is different,"several told me. Still, many feel like "a minority in a minority"and "sometimes invisible."Not all of our students know where to go or what to do if they have a problem, and many of them had ideas about how to make things better.     
It's up to all of us to ensure our country lives up to the ideals of a free and equal society, and there will be much that we will need to do in the coming months – as individuals and as a campus community. 
To begin with, I will be asking our Student Government Association, our Faculty Senate, and our Staff Council to recommend campus colleagues who will work with our Chief of Police to review our policies, procedures, practices and training so that we continue to build trust between the UTEP Police Department and those whom they are sworn to protect. Good organizations always try to be better.
UTEP has a proud legacy of breaking down barriers, as music professor Engebret Thormodsgaard did in 1956 when he cast 20-year-old Bernice Bell to play the heroine opposite a white man in an opera production staged in Magoffin Auditorium; and as Don Haskins and our men's basketball team did in 1966 at the NCAA national championship, forever changing college athletics in this country. UTEP was the first baccalaureate institution in Texas to desegregate; we have a legacy of creating opportunities for those historically underserved by higher education in America, with a student body that is over 90% minority in a top tier research university. 
UTEP will remain true to our legacy by doing good in the face of evil.

Even as our nation struggles to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to bear witness to the reality that systemic racism and injustice pervade our society. The deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery are but the latest examples of violent and dehumanizing acts of racism across the country. I am heartbroken and outraged by these tragedies, and I know that the CMU community around the world shares my concern for the victims’ families, and for those in our community who are most impacted by these hateful acts. Please know that we see you, we care about you and we are here for you. While I recognize I cannot fully understand the pain, anxiety and fear these events inflict on Black and African Americans, including many in our own community, I know that it is up to each one of us – no matter our background – to confront and dismantle racism and injustice wherever they exist.

At times like this we must reflect on what we can do to make society, including our own community, more just. It would be inadequate to restate our commitment to respect, value, and foster diversity, equity and inclusion across our community. We know we have much work to do to live out these values at Carnegie Mellon. Learning about each other’s lived experiences; engaging with and supporting colleagues; challenging injustice when we witness it; and, especially, actively listening to each other will truly help us build the campus climate we seek.

Uniting in the face of challenging times is the Carnegie Mellon way. Acts of solidarity at The Fence, community discussions and listening sessions have helped us all grieve and heal together. Although we cannot gather in traditional ways, we will be working in the days and weeks ahead to curate virtual opportunities to consider actions we as a community can take to be the change we wish to see in the world. In the meantime, we ask our entire community to come together, with humility, compassion and empathy, to support one another, including those who are feeling especially vulnerable now.

With great respect for you and every member of our community,

Six years later, the words are the same.

I can't breathe.

After all of the mourning and protests, the lawsuits and training, the promises made and lessons learned, nothing, it seems, has changed.

Lying on a Staten Island sidewalk in the summer of 2014, Eric Garner said "I can't breathe"nearly a dozen times as a police officer's arm stayed tight around his throat.

Last Monday in Minneapolis, George Floyd repeated the same phrase—in his case, with an officer's knee pressing into his neck.

The local protests that followed have spread across the country, reaching Cleveland on Saturday. Ours opened peacefully, but devolved soon after marchers reached the Justice Center a few blocks away. Protesters pitched water bottles and spray-painted walls, officers released tear gas canisters, and before long, police cars were engulfed in flames.

Today protests continued in communities nationwide—and even extended to London and Berlin. In Cleveland, meanwhile, officials announced a noon curfew for downtown to allow time for clean-up of streets and stores.

But what about the systemic racism cited so often in recent days? How can a city, a country, "clean up"that?

We cannot—should not—ever try to wipe away the past.

We need to know it. Own it. And commit to forging a better future.

Four months after Eric Garner died in 2014, Tamir Rice was shot and killed by police while playing with a toy gun outside a Cleveland recreation center.

He was 12 years old.

The following year, the city accepted a 110-page settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice. The document required sweeping reforms to address the department's record of excessive force and urgent need to restore community trust.

The monitoring team's most recent report, issued in September, found force incidents fell by nearly a third compared to 2017.

That team, including deputy monitor Ayesha Bell Hardaway of our law school, still found shortcomings, in particular in terms of resources for training and data systems. Nevertheless, the group concluded the department had made "substantial progress."

While the medical examiner ruled Garner's death a homicide, the officer who choked him never faced charges. Nor did the one who killed Tamir. On Friday, Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin was arrested and charged with third-degree murder. He appears in court tomorrow.

Small steps, true. But in a moment of so much anger… and pain… and sorrow, they matter.

In the often-quoted words of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. "…the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."

As an institution of higher learning, we have a profound responsibility to the future. When it comes to this moment, how can we best begin to fulfill it?

This week, we will provide opportunities to engage, and share resources for those who would like support. Tonight, though, we want to remind you of a part of our legacy: The first Commencement address Frederick Douglass ever gave came at Western Reserve College in 1854.

"The relation subsisting between the white and black people of this country is the vital question of the age,"he told some 3,000 in attendance. "In the solution of this question, the scholars of America will have to take an important… part."




As we navigate these unprecedented times, we are now forced to deal with a series of tragic events. The unconscionable deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery were unnecessary incidents that have drawn national and international attention. Many people realize that this can and should be the moment to move America forward — into an era of social and economic justice, equity, and stability. We, as a nation, must do better.

Representing the two oldest Historically Black Colleges and Universities in our nation — Cheyney University of Pennsylvania and Lincoln University of Pennsylvania — we stand together against racial injustice. America's HBCUs are in a unique position to be at the forefront of this effort. Our institutions exist because there was a time when universities did not accept African Americans into the ranks of their student population, so we created our own. Now, more than ever, our vision and our voices must be heard.

We call on our students to focus their energy on bringing constructive change to the society in which we live. We ask them to use the modern technology and resources that previous generations did not have as the means to adapt, to overcome inequities and to change our communities for the better. Most importantly, we want our students to stay safe at all times, whether they decide to express their voices at home or in person at peaceful demonstrations.

We are reminded of the words of two prominent alumni of our storied institutions. They are just as relevant today as when they were first spoken and penned:

"…We do solemnly pledge ourselves to assist by our means any suit brought against the perpetrators of outrages…"

– Octavius V. Catto, Cheyney University, Class of 1858

"O, let my land be a land where Liberty
Is crowned with no false patriotic wreath,
But opportunity is real, and life is free,
Equality is in the air we breathe."

– Langston Hughes, Lincoln University, Class of 1929

We are in challenging times that require unity and a sense of purpose. Cheyney University and Lincoln University stand united in the fight for social justice.

Regrettably, African Americans are continuing to be targeted across our great nation. The Claflin University community calls for prayers for the family of George Floyd and all other victims of reported aggression by law enforcement against African Americans and people of color.
After the protests have ended, America must find ways to heal by restoring "Peace with Justice." The work will be hard, but through transformative education, unity, and a true commitment for a changed nation we can move forward.
Corrective action strategies must reflect immediate tools for corrective systemic and cultural change. Only through transformative education, is it possible for shifts in both behavior and mindsets to occur toward more positive humanistic outcomes.
In essence, a cultural shift must occur throughout all of society, especially police precincts, court systems, and prosecutors. Society can no longer tolerate:
•        Treatment of African Americans as second-class citizens.
•        Hasty and unjustified judgment based on the color of one's skin.
•        Excessive harm and brutality to African Americans by law enforcement officers
•        Education and more effective training of law enforcement officers are needed within training academies, and all systems governing the safety of our nation's citizens. African Americans must cease to be marginalized, brutalized and/or murdered by justice systems based on ethnicity.
The pathways for transformation in thinking and shifts in mindsets against such brutality is at the heart of Claflin University's new Center for Social Justice. Our Center will work across disciplines, communities, and demographics, to be a game changer regionally, nationally, and internationally. Our Center, though its programming, will foster collaborations and greater understanding of social justice issues throughout the region and beyond.

Claflin University, the first historically black college and university in South Carolina, is the place where the lives of young African Americans have been shaped for the future for more than 150 years. As such, we see it as our role and mission to be the place to re-shape systems and faulty mindsets that continue to marginalize and bring harm to these future leaders. We desire to be the catalyst for:
•        Helping justice workers around the nation learn how to embrace diversity.
•        Restoring "Peace with Justice."
•        Reducing violence against African Americans.
Our response to the continued violence against African Americans indicates a need for immediate cultural shifts in how African Americans are treated by reported "peacekeepers" around the nation. While many law enforcement officers are performing their duty with dignity and respect toward the public, there still remain too many others who abuse their roles. African Americans are dying and suffering at the hands of many law enforcement officers due to systemic racism and faulty underlying psycho-cultural assimilated orientations of race. While the current protests highlight this crisis, a real solution involves immediate and systemic change in both the mindset and behaviors of everyone involved in all areas of law enforcement and the criminal justice system, past and present.
The Center for Social Justice will provide a platform for our mission to lead a national movement of change. The following is a list of the Center's upcoming projects and activities that will affirm our leadership in this national movement.
1. Day of Reflection Vigil in memory of George Floyd and other recent victims of reported aggression by law enforcement against African Americans and people of color. This vigil, scheduled for June 19, will be a virtual event given the accelerated numbers of COVID-19 across the U.S., the increased risk of African Americans contracting COVID-19, and the number of people across the U.S. and the world who will join our prayer vigil.
2. Transformative action within the highest levels of government. Claflin University is calling on the U.S Department of Justice to partner with us to change the systemic violence towards African Americans throughout this country.
3. Transformative action with partners around the nation. Claflin University will convene the first National Summit for ending violence against African Americans. The Summit will unveil the infusion of anti-racist training resources to adequately support the training and empowerment of all levels of people involved in law enforcement across the country (developed by Claflin University) to confront both conscious and unconscious marginalizing views of minority groups. Representatives from various law enforcement agencies across the nation; HBCUs; UNCF; NAACP; local, state, and national representatives; and other local and national community groups will participate.
4. Annual training and certification programs will be offered to employees at all levels of law enforcement and the criminal justice system through our Center. The focus will be on cultural competencies, urban/rural policing, emotional intelligence and race relations.
5. The development of a "Peace with Justice Covenantal Statement" to be signed by all law enforcement officers prior to beginning service at their respective agencies.
6. The development of agreed upon actions to be taken by both African Americans and law enforcement in the event, for example, behavior after a traffic stop by law enforcement officers.
7. The development of a "Bill of Rights" for African Americans who feel they are being targeted because of their race which will carry a review by boards governing all areas of law enforcement.
Through these initiatives coordinated through the Center of Social Justice, Claflin University will remain at the forefront in the struggle for social justice, economic empowerment, and political equality.


Over the past several days, Clarkson University has joined the nation in grieving the death of George Floyd. The subsequent protests are more than just a response to an isolated incident. Change is necessary.
Clarkson’s core values call us to work towards addressing deep-rooted issues of racial inequality at the heart of these events. We must do so both locally and nationally through intentional actions and with respect to the dignity of our community members.
To our students, employees and alumni who are hurting, we offer our support and our resources.
For those who want to do something to make a difference,  by using our individual and collective voices participate in our Community Meeting on Thursday, June 4 at 7pm Eastern time
connect to the Clarkson community members below and reach out to your elected officials (https://usa.gov/elected-officials) to share the change you want.
I, like many others, am deeply saddened by recent tragic events nationwide and the deep divisions that still threaten our ability to move ahead as one nation.

Let there be no doubt: Racism, injustice, violence, brutality and hatred, in any form, cannot be tolerated.

Amid the turbulent times of 2020, we find our Clemson family physically apart due to COVID-19. Still, we can and should reach out to those in our family who are hurting or in need.

We also can put into practice our Clemson values: We value the rights of others. We are respectful of each other and our individual differences, beliefs and ideas. We actively listen and communicate. We seek to understand one another’s challenges, and are tolerant and forgiving.  And, we come from diverse backgrounds that make up one inclusive Clemson Family.

Our work is not only in the moment, but it also lies in the daily development of our University community, as we work to ensure that everyone feels welcome and valued as a part of this Clemson Family.

As we continue to prepare our campus for the return of our full community this fall, we must keep working to repair the world every day, step by step, to make Clemson and our world a better place for us all.

We can, and must, do better if we are to build a truly inclusive Clemson community. That work has never been more important than it is right now.

My entire leadership team and I are committed to continued progress in this area. Should anyone have ideas they would like to share with us, I encourage you to reach out to us at UnitedClemson@clemson.edu.


It pains us to see racism grip our nation and cause suffering in Black communities. This must stop.
Code.org stands together with the black community- our employees, partners, teachers, and their students-in the fight against the systemic inequity, racism, and injustice in the United States.

I have been contemplating the role of a university, especially in times of great crisis, this last week of May 2020 when the right words are so hard to come by. At William & Mary, one important role is continually to call ourselves to awareness of our history, in the present. As the great American writer James Baldwin taught us, "not everything that is faced can be changed, but nothing can be changed until it is faced."

None of us can ignore the turmoil, the heartbreak, of the racial divisions in our country — a cascade of grief for Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd has brought it to the fore. The racism and injustice we continue to witness bring grievous hurt to our communities. It comes to us at a moment when so many in this nation and the world are vulnerable, intensifying the loss and weariness of pandemic. We are facing again the legacy of our country's founding, that did not recognize the full humanity of all peoples. African Americans in our communities are asking, in this moment, do you recognize my full humanity? We do. We will face this with you.

A critical role of a university at moments of crisis is to rededicate ourselves to the propositions that sustain a pluralistic democracy. We recognize that we are still far from realizing them for all: fairness, respect for the human dignity of others, evidence-based argument, scientific discovery, the pursuit of opportunity and safety and equal justice under the law.

As a public university in Virginia, dedicated to the perpetuity of democratic institutions, it has never been more important that we commit ourselves to change that advances these values. We must find it within ourselves to look for hope. And as we face unspeakable acts, we must be there to help lift one another's heavy hearts — so we can study together, learn and work together, toward a more humane and free world. The past week's events demonstrate how much farther we have to go.

As we search for paths forward during these uncertain times, the role of a university provides some clarity and William & Mary's core values of belonging, respect and integrity provide direction. The diverse communities and perspectives we convene — to grapple with our imperfections and our legacies of inequality — are our best hope for empowering those who study here to build our future together.
Dear Mines Community,
For the past week, the news has been dominated by the tragic death of George Floyd and the ensuing protests, civil unrest and destruction. It has been difficult to watch and to process—the wrongness of the death, the intense anger and emotion of the protestors and the widely varying responses of our elected leaders.
Events like this and others over the past few years force us to face the uncomfortable reality that racism and bias are prevalent and persistent. They also provide the impetus for us, as individuals and the Mines community, to reflect on who we are, what we stand for and what we should do going forward.
We are a caring community that has embraced and is working toward achieving the aspirations expressed in our strategic plan for diversity, inclusion and access. We naturally feel for victims of racism and bias, we hurt when members of our community are hurt and we have pledged to create a community that supports the education and careers of students, staff and faculty from all backgrounds.
Our Achilles heel is that many of us do not understand with depth the issues at play today. Most of us do not come from backgrounds where we have had to endure racism—either based on the color of our skin or our country of origin. This can make us blind to our biases and unable to see the actions we need to take to support the success of all members of our community. How many of us can imagine being raised with a deep-seated fear of law enforcement personnel or being concerned for our life when going out for a run? That is reality for some members of our community.
In response to current events, we wanted to do something more than just issue a campus note that expresses outrage or rejects persistent and systemic racism and promises a better future. We decided instead to use this opportunity to challenge ourselves as campus leaders and all of you as community members to learn how to be more effective advocates and allies for those who experience racism and to develop a deeper understanding of the law enforcement community.
Our Mines DI&A team will follow up with our plan for the former—they already have a list of resources for you to learn more, ways for us to take meaningful action and opportunities for new campus programming. Our Mines Police Department is taking the lead on the second topic. They will be sending an email telling us a little about themselves, their training and programs and the town hall-style discussion they envision that includes participants from our police department and local law enforcement professionals from surrounding communities.
In the last few months, we have seen how individual and collective action can flatten curves and change outcomes. As we have faced the COVID-19 pandemic, we have become adept at putting aside our own self-interests and acted on behalf of our neighbors and larger society. We have spent hours educating ourselves about a menacing threat and using that information to adjust both our actions and our thinking. We can do the same thing, climbing together, as we progress toward creating the community we aspire to have at Mines.
And, as always, we are interested in your thoughts and suggestions.
Stay well and stay safe, Orediggers,
Paul C. Johnson, President and Professor
Amy Landis, Professor and Presidential Faculty Fellow for Access, Attainment and Diversity
Dan Fox, Vice President of Student Life
Dustin Olson, Chief of Police and Director of Public Safety
Rick Holz, Provost and Professor
Kirsten Volpi, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
As protestors gather in cities around the country to express their outrage over the atrocity of George Floyd's death, and as we grieve other incidents of hate and violence perpetrated against people of color—from Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky to Tony McDade in Florida and Chris Cooper in New York, we are united in our anguish and anger.

To the Black members of our community who are hurting so badly, your friends and colleagues all wish we could ease your pain. We are heartbroken for the families of those who have died at the hands of hate and for those who have endured racist incidents they will never forget. We are heartbroken for those protestors who have come together to be heard and who have been met with violence. And we are heartbroken for the young people around our country who must be watching and reading the news and wondering, "When will it stop? When will it change?"

As President of Colorado State, I affirm that it is not enough to commit to being a university and a community where hate and bias and racism are not tolerated. We are committed to being anti-hate, anti-bias, and anti-racist.

And because I recognize the inadequacy of my words during this painful and uncertain time, I urge all of you to read the powerful statement that the Office of the Vice President for Diversity released this morning. I echo their words, in hope that doing so brings some comfort:

To our Black and African American community members: we see you and we are here for you. Our hearts are with you. Our words and actions are with you.
I am writing in both a personal and an institutional capacity. Like everyone, I have been reflecting on the events of the last week with an increasing sense of anguish at the human suffering we are witnessing and of alarm at the national crisis we are facing in our political system.

Until last Friday, I did not think it was possible for me to forget even for a moment that we are in the midst of an historic pandemic, bringing untold human loss and crossing a numerical threshold of unimaginable proportions. But the horrifying ending of the life of George Floyd, a citizen in the very system of justice intended to protect him, and us, which then, along with other recent tragic deaths, drew back the curtains on centuries of invidious discrimination against African Americans, and others, did that. My hopes for a renewed sense of national purpose to continue the heroic efforts of so many, over so many generations, to change once and for all that terrible course of history have been raised, and then deflated. We are at a point in our history where political leadership is not only absent but also disturbingly confounding of the fundamental norms and values that take years and years of hard and determined work to develop—and yet are always so fragile when pitted against the worst instincts of human nature. My concerns here are not partisan, but basic to our culture.

Like so many others here, I have chosen to dedicate my life to sustaining and building academic institutions, and my beloved Columbia, specifically. There is no question that the expectations of intellectual character we choose to live by in the academic world are extreme, and we cannot reasonably expect them to set the bar for ordinary political deliberations and interactions. But what we are seeing today—which unfortunately included just in the last week an unfounded attack on our research and researchers, as well as on the University itself-is at the opposite end of the spectrum. If this were a single incident, that would be one thing, but in the current way of behaving, these become acts of intimidation and dangerous mischaracterization of expertise, one of the hallmarks of a descent into authoritarianism.

In the face of all this, it is only a start to express empathy and solidarity with those in our community who are experiencing loss and apprehension. But I certainly do so here, on behalf of all of us. Universities are not perfect and we have to accept our share of responsibility for the state of affairs we have today. But we are determined, even more so now, to change and to be better. More than anything we will continue to provide the society and the world with all the knowledge we can preserve and create and with a new generation of citizens and leaders who are prepared to live by, and fight for, the values of respect for reason, the love of ideas, and the wish to use these to care for others. 

We say it often and we don’t say it lightly: one of Concordia’s greatest strengths is our diversity.

As a university with international reach, our thoughts are with Black communities across North America as yet another horrifying incident of racist police brutality exposes the terrible grip that systemic racism continues to wield in our contemporary world.

Before Concordia became the university it is today, events in the late 1960s at one of our founding institutions, Sir George Williams University, changed the discussion about racism in Canada. Our campus has long been known for its accessibility and openness, offering opportunities to individuals and communities who were not finding them elsewhere.

Concordia does not tolerate racism or violence of any sort. The university stands in solidarity with those who combat hatred in any form through peaceful means.

We will continue to promote our values of diversity, equity and respect on campus for all. We must also recognize that we are many voices at the university. We come from profoundly different backgrounds and social positions.

With this reality in mind, two years ago Concordia launched a three-phase consultation to develop a strategy for advancing Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) in all aspects of university life. It happens that right now we’re entering the final stage of that process and will be hosting consultation sessions this month to present our findings. 

This isn’t the time or place to recite the initiatives Concordia has undertaken to address racism. Instead, it is, unfortunately, another occasion to acknowledge that there is much more to do as we pursue our mission to create a more just society and brighter future for all through education.

Finally, we recognize that many members of the university community may need support right now. Concordia has people ready to listen.

    Please visit the International Students Office, Multi-Faith and Spirituality Centre, Health Services and/or Counselling and Psychological Services.
    Students can also call Empower Me at 1-844-741-6389 for 24/7 counselling support over the phone.
    Employees can contact the Employee Assistance Program at 1-800-663-1142 (English) or 1-866-398-9505 (French).

The events of the past week come at an especially trying time. It is customary to say of COVID-19 that we are all in this together. And we are. But the past several days are a stark reminder that the health of society also depends on other forms of collective vigilance.

     Like so many of you, my family and I have been reeling over the events of the past week – events for which words seem inadequate. The images we have seen and the sounds we have heard have horrified us and broken our hearts. We are ashamed of the injustices that are perpetrated in our country, every day, against people of color; and of the reality that 155 years after Cornell was founded to help heal the wounds of a broken nation, that nation is, in many ways, still so badly broken.

    The extraordinary times in which we are living are shining a spotlight on so many issues of equity, and the lack of it: on the ways that rights and opportunity are unevenly distributed across our society, and the worth of our labor and our lives unequally valued. As an academic community built on the bedrock values of diversity, inclusion, and openness, we have an obligation to ensure that the forces of these events and our feelings drive us not backward, but forward. Over these past days, the words that have resonated with me the most, as I have struggled with the question of how our community can best embrace our collective challenge, are those of the Rev. William J. Barber II, spoken to an empty church in Goldsboro, North Carolina, this past Sunday: "We cannot try to hurry up and put the screams and the tears and the hurt back in the bottle, just to get back to some normal that was abnormal in the first place. Hear the screams. Feel the tears. The very people who have been rejected over and over again are the ones who have shown us the possibility of a more perfect nation."

    Words are important. Words matter. But our words – of sympathy, of support, of shared pain – are not enough. While the challenges are enormous, and we cannot fix them on our own, that does not absolve us from taking whatever steps we can to fight against systemic racism and structural inequality. As a community, we can and must act, through our teaching, our research, and our engagement, to stand up for those who are oppressed or marginalized, to educate ourselves and others, and to work to ensure that we – our entire society – do better.

    Here are some of the things that Cornell will do immediately:

    Strengthen Community Involvement in Public Safety

    Cornell's Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) is composed of students, staff and faculty members who advise Cornell University Police on issues of public safety and victims' advocacy. The committee, which last met in April, makes recommendations to improve campus security policies and procedures and reviews issues that affect the overall safety and well-being of Cornell's diverse community. I have asked the PSAC to redouble their efforts to engage our community, with a specific focus on procedures and training in the areas of use of force, de-escalation techniques, and cultural competency.

    Summit with Regional Law Enforcement Agencies

    In addition to the work of the PSAC, the university administration has convened discussions in recent years with representatives of regional law enforcement agencies, including Cornell University Police, the Ithaca Police Department, the Tompkins County Sheriff's Office, and the New York State Police. These conversations have touched on shared interests, with a focus on understanding and sharing best practices around law enforcement interactions with communities of color. We will organize another session as soon as possible and include student, staff and faculty representatives in this important, ongoing conversation.

    Community Conversations on Race and Racism

    Using the community chat framework, the Office of Human Resources will be offering 75-minute Zoom sessions on topics such as institutional racism and the context of the current protests, ways to be an ally to our Black colleagues, and how to engage in proactive and meaningful dialogue around difficult topics such as racism. Details on the programs, and information on how to register, will be sent to all staff and faculty members by Vice President Mary Opperman early next week.

    Campus Community Book Read

    As a campus community, we have a collective responsibility to engage in difficult but critical conversations – to listen genuinely to, and learn from, one another. To help bring focus to these conversations, I invite all of you to participate in a Community Book Read of "How to Be an Antiracist," by National Book Award winner Ibram X. Kendi. We will soon provide all students, faculty, and staff with information about how to access an electronic copy of the book, along with a schedule of virtual discussions which will take place over the summer. I hope you will choose to read the book and to join in the conversation.

    Dialogue with Local Community Leaders

    I will be meeting next week with a diverse group of local elected, nonprofit, business, and faith community leaders to review the events of the last few weeks and consider how we might advance town-gown initiatives to further support the needs of our friends and neighbors.

    These plans are in addition to the ongoing work of the Belonging at Cornell framework that emerged from our diversity and inclusion initiatives, many of which were proposed by the President's Task Force on Campus Climate and/or the Provost's Task Force to Enhance Faculty Diversity. More than three-quarters of the goals laid out by the Task Force in 2018 have now been achieved, including the creation of a mandatory Intergroup Dialogue Project experience for all new undergraduates, an improved bias reporting process, implicit bias training for all faculty search committees, and increased support from the provost for faculty hires that advance diversity.

    All of this work will continue, but so much more needs to be done, at Cornell and beyond. I want to close by echoing the words of the Rev. Barber, in saying that there will be no return to "normal" from where we are right now. We are in a time of profound societal change – change that we, as a community and a society, have the power to influence and to shape. We can, and we will, rise to this challenge. Our own consciences demand it, as do our values as a community, and our ethos as Cornellians.
The amount of pain and suffering we are witnessing and feeling is only a snapshot of a broader social reality. We, and everyone before us, have had a role in arriving at where we are today. As such, it is of paramount importance to step up and take a stance. It is our responsibility and a moral imperative to not stand by and simply witness the events around us. We must collectively find our voice and reject racism and inequality. Silence perpetuates, doubt reinforces, and rationalization of incident after incident only compounds the pain so many in our society continue to endure.
While CRA has a long history of celebrating, promoting, and advocating for inclusivity, we cannot be satisfied with continuing the status quo. We will continue to actively stand against discrimination and hatred. We will find new ways to use our voice in Washington to advocate for policies that address the inequities that exist in our field. We will amplify the efforts of our membership organizations wherever we can to help them improve the spaces they occupy and create an environment that is more welcoming, just, and equitable to all. Only together can we begin to right the long history of wrongs that have led us to this place and time.

We start with acknowledging the issues by talking to those around us and explicitly stating that we stand with them when they stand against discrimination and hatred.
We know that racism:
•        Is systemic and institutionalized, was intentionally designed, and established well before the foundation of our nation.
•        Continues to oppress people of color around the world – denying basic human rights, denying opportunity, and even more tragically denying many of their very lives.
•        Is learned behavior that may be unlearned through education, compassion, empathy, and action.
•        Drives a wedge between communities, and in doing so limits the enviable quest for a society steeped in respect.
•        The privileged benefit from its existence and must be willing to sacrifice to overcome it.
•        Lives in our homes, schools, workplaces, parks, churches, stores, amusement parks, government, law enforcement – it lives in us all to varying degrees.
To stand against it, we:
•        Acknowledge the existence of racism within our communities and commit to defeating it.
•        Call out and reject rationalization of incidents and distortion of information.
•        Educate ourselves and those around us to be better equipped to address racism in its many forms.
•        Stand up against the status quo by using our voice and agency.
•        Commit to systemic change in laws, policies, procedures, etc.
•        Dedicate all necessary resources to create lasting change.

We stand in solidarity against racism and injustice. #BlackLivesMatter #CSforALL:  As CSforALL, we acknowledge that current systems are inherently flawed, biased, and unequal. Today, in solidarity with the fight against systematic racism and white supremacy, we say this with increased emphasis. CURRENT SYSTEMS ARE INHERENTLY FLAWED, BIASED, AND UNEQUAL.

We extend our support to ALL who are actively working to identify, change, repair, and replace the systems that cultivate inequity.

Educational equity can never exist in communities where life and liberty are not fundamental rights.

#BLACKLIVESMATTER 




The tragedy of George Floyd's death in Minneapolis is heartbreaking, yet all too familiar. From Trayvon Martin to Eric Garner to Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor, as well as earlier this week in Central Park, we have seen too many deaths and incidents of harassment perpetrated against the African American community. Racism and its deadly consequences are rooted in United States history. Slavery and its legacy live on, and these incidents make all too real the impact of this history.

In the past few weeks, we have witnessed the jarring violence of racism in images in the news and social media. Even in such unsettling times, these events are still occurring and prove that our country is still not immune to racism and the hatred it brings. These events cause grief, sadness, anger and frustration at our inability to conquer racism and protect our loved ones and our communities.

In our grief, let us pledge to work for change, to seek reform and to hold each other accountable for taking a stand against injustice. Let us work to become instruments of peace. As Dr. Reverend Martin Luther King once said, “Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate; only love can do that." In these times of darkness, let us protect and care for one another. The DePaul University community will stand together in solidarity against racism and hate.

At DePaul we are not indifferent when we see that the dignity of entire communities is not respected; whether it be through violent conflict, subtle discrimination, overt negligence of rights, or words and actions of hatred. These facts continue to generate anxiety and suffering, driving communities apart and putting peace, development and democracy under mounting pressure. We are DePaul, a united diverse community. Following the inspiration of St. Vincent de Paul, we promote, respect and protect the dignity of all.

For those who are struggling with recent events, I want to remind community members that University Counseling Services and the Religious Diversity and Pastoral Care offices are sources of support for those who seek assistance in these stressful times. 

We in the Drexel community are disheartened, disturbed and enraged by the pervasiveness of racism and violence against African Americans — most recently, George Floyd's senseless death in Minneapolis police custody, which prompted the demonstrations in Philadelphia and every other major city.

The tragedy of George Floyd's death, and the recent killings of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky, are just the latest examples of our nation's abject failure to address the root causes of inequality. At a time when the African American community is bearing a disproportionately heavy burden from the COVID-19 pandemic, this unrelenting racial violence against the black community exacts a tremendous physical and emotional toll.

We are living in what the American Psychological Association has described as a "racism pandemic" that exacts a heavy emotional toll. We understand that black individuals carry an additional burden of fear and anxiety, simply by nature of the color of their skin. As the APA states, "If you're black in America — and especially if you are a black male – it's not safe to go birding in Central Park, to meet friends at a Philadelphia Starbucks, to pick up trash in front of your own home in Colorado or to go shopping almost anywhere."

We are painfully aware that our campus community is suffering, and that anger and fear are dominating the lives of many of our students, faculty, professional staff and alumni. Many students in Philadelphia are on the front lines of peaceful protest in this city, and students who are home in other parts of the country are doing the same. They are rightly shocked when they are met with resistance. We are proud of their activism and courage, and we support their actions.

At times like this, it is imperative that we harness the values of our campus community to insist on change wherever we are, change in our country and change on our campus. As a university community, we can strive for an extra measure of compassion and understanding as we move forward to action. We can take the time to listen to one another, to have hard conversations about racism, to confront uncomfortable truths about ideologies of white supremacy, and to use what we learn to create an anti-racist campus free from intolerance and hatred. These dialogues are a first step to create a more equitable community as an ongoing aspiration for our University.

On Friday, June 5, at 12:30 p.m., we are opening up a space for dialogue about racism and the difficult path forward to become active allies in the fight against racism. We hope you will join this dialogue and let us know your plan to attend this inaugural virtual conversation by responding at this online link.

We call on all members of the Drexel community to insist on a more just and equitable future, and to speak out in peaceful but defiant resistance to the racial injustice endured by the African American community. We stand with the Drexel community — our students, faculty, professional staff, trustees and alumni – in calling for an end to the racism and discrimination in our country.

We hope you will join this dialogue on Friday and for future conversations, and we urge you to stay safe.
This week, as the United States passed the grim milestone of 100,000 lives lost to the coronavirus, the horrifying death of George Floyd has drawn national attention to fundamental and systematic disparities of justice in our nation. The events in Minneapolis have occurred on the heels of the murder of Ahmaud Arbery, the shooting of Breonna Taylor and in the context of the disproportionate impacts of COVID-19 on communities of color, including here in Durham. For many people at Duke and elsewhere, the pain, trauma and sense of hopelessness is overwhelming.

Every day, throughout our country, African American and other marginalized communities have their safety and dignity threatened—in their places of work, in public spaces, and in their homes and neighborhoods. This ongoing history of structural and sustained racism is a fundamental and deeply distressing injustice, here as elsewhere.

But we as a university must do more than recognize and grieve these circumstances; we must work together to change them.  In our Duke statement of values, we affirm our commitment to trust, respect, and inclusion. In that spirit, Duke University will continue the work of addressing generations of racism and injustice, of seeking ways to approach one another with respect, and of building communities that are truly safe, supportive, and inclusive for all.

My very best wishes to the entire Duke family in this troubling time.
The ECEP leadership team acknowledges that our work to broaden participation in computing will only have its full desired impact if we actively confront the systemic racism that has led to the current state of affairs in this country:
As advocates for equity in CS, we must, in both words and action, challenge the deeply ingrained structural racism permeating our culture and our educational systems. Real and lasting change will require ALL of us to dismantle structural inequities by engaging as allies and advocates for change.



As Emory leaders speak out against racist violence, the community will come together Friday, June 5, to unite for an anti-racist world.

A university-wide online solidarity vigil is set for 4 p.m. Friday. Earlier in the day, the Emory medicine community will hold "White Coats for Black Lives" events on the Emory Quadrangle and at six hospitals. Masks and social distancing will be mandatory.

"All of us are grappling with the violent deaths of Georgia resident Ahmaud Arbery, Minneapolis citizen George Floyd, Kentucky citizen Breonna Taylor, and too many other instances of racism and violence against people of color," Emory President Claire E. Sterk said in a message sent to the Emory community May 30. "These senseless acts strike at the heart of Emory's commitment to upholding equity, diversity and inclusion. Now, more than ever, we must stand together against intolerance and racism." 

Sterk will speak at Friday's online solidarity vigil, which is hosted by the Office of Spiritual and Religious Life along with Campus Life. Other speakers include Carol Henderson, vice provost for diversity and inclusion and chief diversity officer; LaNita Campbell, director of the Office for Racial and Cultural Engagement; the Rev. Greg McGonigle, university chaplain and dean of religious life; and Olivia Johnson, a student in the Laney Graduate School.

The event will also include a reading from Jericho Brown, Emory's Winship Distinguished Research Professor in Creative Writing, who recently won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry. Attendees should register to attend and are encouraged to light a candle for those who have died.

 "The Emory community stands for justice in all aspects of our mission, and when confronted with hatred and prejudice, we must speak out," Sterk emphasized in her message. "Emory respects the dignity and value of all human beings, and our community will continue to engage in conversations that matter, no matter how difficult the dialogue, so that together, we might seek a more just and equitable world for all."

Emory President-elect Gregory L. Fenves, who takes the helm of the university Aug. 1, sent a message to the community June 2 reflecting on the tragedies of the past weeks and the protests in Atlanta and across the nation.

"The murder of George Floyd, under the knee of a police officer, horrified me as a human being and as an American," Fenves said. "Mr. Floyd's death, coming in the wake of so many other killings of African American citizens — including Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia — has unleashed anger and outrage about systemic racism that has not been addressed more than 60 years after the Civil Rights Movement started. We are still fighting the same battles and people have had enough — of racist violence, of organized hatred and of longstanding social inequities." 

But amid the despair, the Emory community has the ability to lead change "through education, research, health care and creative expression, but also by leading with your hearts," he continued, noting that he learned from his father that "it is our duty to speak up — to not be silent — so that injustice could be rooted out and overcome. 

"It is my hope, then, that the tragedy of George Floyd's murder and those before him will awaken us all to our deepest flaws and help us heal, change and create a better future, together," Fenves said.

Interim Provost Jan Love called on the Emory community to remember that "education is only one tool, but it is powerful" and to note that the university's motto — "the wise heart seeks knowledge" — "deliberately combines head and heart."

"Righteous rage is a healthy immediate emotion in response to the outrageous violence we are witnessing perpetrated against black people," Love said in June 3 message to the Emory community. "If you want to be part of meaningful, productive and life-giving change, definitely get mad, but then get busy. We all have work to do. Let's do it together."
White Coats for Black Lives

The Emory School of Medicine community will gather in seven locations earlier on Friday for "White Coats for Black Lives" events. Participants will kneel for 8 minutes and 46 seconds in remembrance of George Floyd, as well as countless other victims of racist violence. 

"Our aspirations for a racism-free world seem so very, very far away. For that, we should all be sad, angry, and at the same time energized to do all that we can to serve as forces of change to support each other, regardless of race, and to confront both racism and the racists who would seek to divide and damage," Emory Healthcare CEO Jonathan S. Lewin said in May 30 message. 

The events take place at 1 p.m. and all are welcome to attend; masks and social distancing will be mandatory. Locations include the following: 

    School of Medicine and Clifton Campus (EUH): Emory Quadrangle
    Emory University Hospital Midtown: Orr Building Courtyard
    Emory Saint Joseph's Hospital: Meditation Garden
    Emory Johns Creek Hospital: Classrooms A & B, Lower Level
    Emory Decatur Hospital: Front Plaza by the flagpole
    Emory Hillandale Hospital: Main Entrance
    Grady Memorial Hospital: Main Entrance on the corner of Jesse Hill and Gilmer Street





Our world is in pain, from ills both medically treatable and socially teachable. Florida Tech is proud to have one of the most diverse student populations of any U.S. university. Justice and equality are core principles that we value here, and education sheds light where there otherwise was darkness. I look forward to the conversations we will have as a community of learners when students arrive for fall classes. Until then, I hope that all of you stay safe and healthy, open your minds to ideas that make you uncomfortable, and always treat your fellow humans with dignity and respect.




We are going to keep this statement brief. Words are failing all of us in the wake of George Floyd's murder. When leaders reach for words like outrage, horror, or despair, they only do more damage when they are not matched by action. As James Baldwin once famously said, "I can't believe what you say, because I see what you do."

So, no words without action. We are determined to keep George Mason University true to its motto, to be a place of "freedom and learning."We will take whatever steps are necessary to ensure every member of Mason Nation, and every visitor to our campuses, is safe: physically safe, emotionally safe, culturally safe, and intellectually safe, to become who they want to be.

To do that, today we directed the senior leadership of Mason to conduct a thorough review of our academic, research, public service, student service, campus law enforcement, and alumni offerings that contribute to social justice, racial equity, and peaceful conflict resolution. And we have directed them also to root out areas where we have fallen short of our intentions, through either conscious or unconscious bias.

Where we have services and expertise to offer a hurting, grieving community, we will step up – to the Mason community, to northern Virginia, to the national capital region, and beyond. We simply will not allow this moment to divert Mason from the long-standing pursuit of access to excellence, which is our ultimate tool to fight the perpetuation of racism.

And where we learn we have failed the diverse community we so proudly serve, we will direct necessary resources to fill the void. The COVID-19 pandemic has put us under unprecedented financial duress, but nothing is more strategically or morally vital to our future than truly living up to our mission to be an "inclusive academic community committed to creating a more just, free, and prosperous world."

In the weeks and months ahead, we will have more to say about what we have to offer to advance social justice and healing, and about what changes we will make to improve how Mason will better serve the community and the nation as a whole. We invite you to stay tuned and be prepared to act with us.

Our nation is fighting two pandemics – the COVID-19 virus, and the pandemic of racism in America. George Mason University will address both with the same vigor and sense of urgency.
Like everyone in our community, I write to you today feeling sad and angry about the brutal killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor, along with the racist incident in Central Park. 

I cannot begin to fathom the hurt GW’s Black students, faculty and staff may be feeling. My heart goes out to all who are suffering and may not feel safe. 

Please know that we continue to offer support and resources and are planning some online community events that are referenced in this message from Vice Provost Caroline Laguerre-Brown and the Office of Diversity, Equity and Community Engagement.

While I wish we had the opportunity to host these conversations and support one another on campus, I know that we remain a strong community, and we will find ways to connect until our planned return to campus this fall. I look forward to working together—harnessing the power of the community that comprises this great institution—to address racism and injustice on our campus and in our society.
Like many of you, I have struggled to process the senseless, heartbreaking killing of George Floyd by a police officer in Minneapolis. It is hard not to see a pattern of violence against black people when this tragic death comes on the heels of Ahmaud Arbery’s shooting right here in Georgia, Breonna Taylor’s in Kentucky, and so many others before them across our country. I acknowledge the pain many members of our community are feeling, and I stand in solidarity with our African American brothers and sisters and all people of goodwill, as we find a path forward.

There is much soul-searching we need to do as a society. We all share in the responsibility to deliver on our foundational belief that all people are created equal and are endowed with the same fundamental rights. While we demand change from those with the power to enact it, we must also ask what each of us can do to make good on that promise. And that includes all of us at Georgia Tech.

For the past few months, we have worked together on a new vision of inclusion, public service, and impact. That vision requires that we open the doors of opportunity to more people of underrepresented backgrounds. That we reduce barriers of access that still persist and that have nothing to do with talent. That we reject the status quo and do better. That we listen to and work with our students to create a more inclusive environment where people of all backgrounds can learn and grow. That we educate students who can think critically about the society we live in and can lead us to a better place.

As scholars and researchers, we need to ask ourselves how the science and technology we advance and the theories and solutions we propose help all of us live better lives. As alumni and leaders in business and society, we need to hold ourselves to a higher standard of equal opportunity, inclusivity, and impact.

Last September, we had the privilege to meet, listen to, and honor the first four African American students in the Institute’s history. That day helped me better appreciate our long struggle to become more just and inclusive — and how, by being more just and inclusive, we have become much stronger. Today, we must reflect on how much further we have to go.

I encourage all of us at Georgia Tech to be true to our motto of Progress and Service, to deliver on our mission to develop leaders who advance technology and improve the human condition. Those aren’t just words on a page. We have a responsibility to our campus community, to our local community, and to our nation to help change our world for the better. We have a responsibility to empower and include more people, backgrounds, and perspectives in the process.
The senseless killings of Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd have brought forward understandable pain and anger about racism and violence against black Americans. There is no place for racism and violence in our society or at Georgia State.

As a society and a nation, we must be better. The racism and violence that plague our society must stop, and the healing must begin.

Atlanta‘s many decades of peaceful protest and advocacy for social justice have resulted in real and positive change in our society. Georgia State is an example of that change. Racial exclusion was replaced with inclusion, and racism was replaced with black students excelling as academic and community leaders. We’re on the right track, and through continued hard work and sustained commitment we will together help bring an end to the pain and injustice that ail our society.

Now, I ask each and every member of the Georgia State community to stand in solidarity in rejecting racism and violence and to commit to building a better future where opportunity is real and just.


The current state of affairs in our nation today saddens and
enrages me.  Equal justice under the law
is a cornerstone of liberty, but this was not the case with Mr. George
Floyd.  He was murdered by a white
Minneapolis policeman who put his knee on Mr. Floyd's neck until he died.  The policeman in question and those who stood around and watched this crime being committed have now been arrested, but
should have been arrested immediately. 
It is my hope that they will all be prosecuted to the fullest extent of
the law. 
As president of Hampton University and one who witnessed and
participated in the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950's and 1960's, I am
pleased to see those who have initiated peaceful protests expressing their
concerns about police brutality, particularly towards African Americans.  During the late 1950's and 1960's, I participated
in marches and other peaceful protests that were led by Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr.  I was also the vice-president of a statewide student Civil Rights organization. 
My father was a building contractor and Civil Rights
leader.  Therefore, our household was one of those homes that was a meeting place for the local organizations.  It also served as a rest stop for out of town
travelers who could not use public accommodations because of the racism of the
time.  For those travelers, most of these
visits occurred on the weekends and might include a meal, a glass of tea or
lemonade, a nap on the living room sofa, or an overnight stay.  Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. visited several
times although I do not recall him spending the night.  His brother Rev. A. D. King was a frequent
visitor and overnight guest.  Their
visits always included interesting conversations.  I shall forever be indebted to my father for
allowing me to sit in on some of those meetings.  He gave me permission to be present with the
proviso that I could not ask a question, venture an opinion, or otherwise
speak.  As he would say, "You are to
listen and learn."
In these meetings, there were conversations about successes,
failures, problems, promises, and plans for progress in the Civil Rights
Movement.  Some of the attendees urged
the abandonment of peaceful demonstrations and encouraged violent responses
that matched the batons, bullets, hoses, and dogs used by police against
us.  Dr. King spoke out strongly against
the use of these tactics.  He felt that
it would hurt our cause, and he was proven right.  In that same vein, I think that our cause is
hurt today when we focus more on retaliation and less on seeking police reform
and justice.
While peaceful protestors rally to make their voices heard,
the violence, looting, and destruction of property are not the solution. These
acts hinder the cause of justice that so many are seeking.  Peaceful demonstration is a part of African
American history, but engaging in the above-mentioned acts hurts our cause. To
be sure, there will be criticism for those of us who believe in peaceful
protest to achieve desired goals and objectives.

 

I do not have all of the answers, but three specific
thoughts come to mind.   First, now is
the time for us to again come together in our homes and churches to have
conversations about how we can move forward as a people and as a nation to end
police brutality against African Americans. Secondly, every municipality in the
country should establish a colloquium board to facilitate dialogue between
representatives of the police and the African American community to include
ministers, educators, organizational leaders, and other citizens of
good-will.  Thirdly, every state and
local police academy as well as other providers of law enforcement officers
should establish a mandatory class on policing in the African American
community.

 

While I cannot claim to know all of the answers to these
problems nor the timeline for resolution, I do know that nothing can be
accomplished unless we work together for the betterment of ourselves, our
communities, and our nation. Until this happens, justice will not served.  All of us must understand the immorality of
racism as we support the victims of racial discrimination.





The last several months have been disorienting for all of us. COVID-19 has profoundly disrupted the lives of people worldwide. It has caused more than 365,000 deaths around the globe and more than 100,000 in the United States alone. Forty million Americans have lost their jobs, and countless others live in fear of both the virus and its economic consequences.

In the midst of this incomprehensible loss, our nation has once again been shocked by the senseless killing of yet another black person—George Floyd—at the hands of those charged with protecting us. Cities are erupting. Our nation is deeply divided. Leaders who should be bringing us together seem incapable of doing so.

I cannot help but think back to 1968, the spring of my junior year in high school. First, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, then Bobby Kennedy. Riots broke out in nearby Detroit, as they did across the country. Then, like now, our nation was hugely polarized, and we desperately struggled to find common ground that might unite us. 

At the time, hope was in short supply. It seemed difficult to imagine how we would move forward, but we did. As I think about the challenges that we face today, I return again and again to what I believe:

I believe in the goodness of the people of this country—and in their resilience.

I believe that all of us, liberal and conservative, Democrat and Republican, whatever our race or ethnicity, want a better life for our children.

I believe that America should be a beacon of light to the rest of the world.

I believe that our strength as a nation is due in no small measure to our tradition of welcoming those who come to our shores in search of freedom and opportunity, individuals who repay us multiple times over through their hard work, creativity, and devotion to their new home. 

I believe in the American Dream.

I believe in the Constitution, the separation of powers, the First Amendment—especially the right to a free and independent press that holds those in power accountable, and to a free and independent judiciary.

I believe in the 14th Amendment’s guarantee of equal protection of the laws—for everyone, not just for those who look like me.

I believe that no person is above the law regardless of the office they hold or the uniform they wear. Those who break the law must be held accountable.

I believe that one measure of the justness of a society is how it treats its most vulnerable members.

I believe we must provide opportunity to those who may not encounter it on their own so that they may achieve their full potential.

I believe in the power of knowledge and ideas to change the world, of science and medicine to defeat disease, of the arts and humanities to illuminate the human condition.

This is just some of what I believe. I hope you will pause during these troubled times to ask what you believe. Even more importantly, I hope you will find the strength and determination to act on your beliefs—to repair and perfect this imperfect world. Those of us privileged to work or study at a place like this bear special responsibilities. As Luke teaches us, from those to whom much is given, much is expected.


Recent months have cast a long shadow as the pandemic continues its deadly toll on the nation ravaging Black, Brown and Native American communities in particular.   And in the midst of such anguish, the images of Black Americans treated without humanity and – in some cases – brutalized in the last moments of their earthly lives' triggers waves of emotion including staggering grief and righteous anger.   

This constant attack on the Black experience must end.

I am the proud father of two precocious teenagers.  Like many parents we have very purposely had "The Talk"– the unwelcome but necessary conversation about how to prepare for engagement with law enforcement. Watching these modern-day examples of social injustice and unrest in the presence of my 15-year-old son has brought up some difficult conversations. He reminded me of a time when we were heading to campus and were pulled over. I personally don't recall all the details of that stop. However, my son vividly remembers the anger he felt as a result of the interaction. Upon seeing the news out of Minneapolis, he turned to me and asked, "Dad, should I just fall to the ground if a cop approaches me?"Praying for the right words to say, I told him that he should remain calm and try to express himself to the best of his ability. Yet, even after struggling through that conversation, the myriad names of innocent Black lives taken through lethal force  – young and old, men and women –  testify to the insufficiency of that advice. 

This moment of compounding crises leaves little doubt that the daily experience of so many in our community remain marked by heightened vulnerability and a likelihood to encounter deadly force at the hands of misguided individuals or those whose bigoted views betray the oaths they swore to protect and serve.  

Howard University emerged from the ashes of the American Civil War, a conflict that raised but hardly resolved the racial divide in this nation.  Firmly rooted in a promise that offered the transformative power of education to all, Howard has consistently taught that the highest use of knowledge gained at the Mecca is demonstrated in service above self; focused on addressing systematic injustices and entrenched interests antagonistic to our enjoyment of life and liberty.  Our scholars have enlightened, our physicians have healed, our lawyers have advocated, our activists have agitated, our entrepreneurs have built, our counselors have comforted, and our artists have enriched even life itself.

Our nation would be a shadow of itself and remain as imperfect as it was at its inception without the contributions of Howard University and all it stands for. 

In the context of current events there must always be accountability for all found responsible through a fair and thorough investigation so that justice is served. Yet even as we see individual perpetrators on our screens, we must remain mindful that the distorted worldviews and ugly biases have too often been codified into inequitable or predatory systems are equally culpable.  The book of Ephesians reminds us "For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places."

We were born for such a time as this. And I am convinced that institutions like Howard University are destined to continue to build, mold and train the leaders who will help bring needed change to the structures of our society.

No pandemic, no declining economy, no period of prosperity, and no cure for every medical ailment will undo or hide the realities of the Black experience. We must bring consistency to that struggle and focus our intellect and passion daily to prepare for the hard work that must be done to confront evil and systematic oppression. 

As students: remain vigilant about your studies. You are matriculating through Howard University for a purpose that is greater than yourselves. You are the hope of our ancestors and despite the new challenges that will come our way, each day that you remain resolved to focus on your destiny is a day that brings us closer to resolution to many of our world's dilemmas.

As faculty: continue to focus our energies and concern on our students so that they would be nurtured, thrive and excel. We all are intricately woven into the fabric of the Howard University legacy.  Keep researching, writing, and speaking out to craft solutions to the contemporary challenges we face.  We must be diligent in our work and conversations with students to hear and walk with them through these trying times. 

Let's not forget that we are all living these experiences in our daily lives outside of Howard. It is everywhere that we are. Let's first start by not looking past each other wherever we may be and work on actively loving each other. 

In this moment it is necessary to grieve over another life taken unnecessarily and those who loved him who are now broken and left behind to mourn.  It's okay to be angry. It's okay to be sad. It's okay to feel numb. Stay there as long as you need to. I encourage you to take those feelings and channel them into something durable. Write about it. Sing about it. Participate in the electoral process and vote about it. 

We must remember the names of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Atatiana Jefferson, Breonna Taylor and the countless other lives gone too soon.  

We can honor their memories through a life of purpose in confronting and correcting those skewed systems until they respect the humanity and inherent dignity in each of us.

You have noticed that we haven’t posted much lately. As Black Women, we are taking time away from social media for self-care and processing these events individually.
We hope that you are too doing what you can to protect your peace.
{Self-care resources in Bio}

The IEEE Computer Society is, and remains, strongly committed to equity, diversity, and inclusion and we see no place for hatred and discrimination in our communities. Equity, diversity, and inclusion are central to the goals of the Computer Society and all of our activities. We are proactively supporting diversity and inclusion with the creation of a new taskforce this year that will address ways the Computer Society can improve its mission to better serve those most under-represented in our community. However, we know there is more we can do to support these ideals of equity, diversity, and inclusion.

We are ready to listen. Please send your suggestions to inclusion@computer.org and your comments will be shared with Computer Society leadership and the Computer Society Diversity & Inclusion Task Force.



History teaches us that silence is acceptance. This isn't the time to be quiet. At #icsme2020, we strive to build a safe, diverse and inclusive environment. We support and uplift the Black voices in our community. Today—and always—we stand in solidarity with the Black community.

As the events following the tragic death of George Floyd in Minneapolis have created unrest in our city, state, and nation, I want to reaffirm our unwavering support of our students, faculty, staff, alumni, and Bronzeville neighbors of African descent. Simply put, the university unequivocally condemns discrimination and violence against all African Americans within our community and across the country. 

The pain and outrage that many of us feel at this time is palpable. I reaffirm this university's ongoing and strong commitment against racism of all kinds. Our university is dedicated to peacefully working with our community to reject fear, violence, and injustice and to contribute to positive change in Chicago and in our nation. 

Our university was founded to bridge inequity in education and opportunity—and that informs every aspect of who we are as a university. As outlined in our Statement on Community, Inclusion, and Diversity, "We embrace the contributions that differences offer."

Please stay safe during this difficult time.
****video message***
Like many of you, I have followed the events in Minneapolis and the demonstrations in cities around the nation in response to the tragic death of George Floyd with a mixture of deep sadness, frustration, anger and disappointment. My heart goes out to all those feeling pain and anguish over this senseless death and to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives in the protests of recent days or who have suffered loss and damage in other ways. It is truly difficult to comprehend this tragedy and to find the right words to console the many people, especially members of the African-American community, who are hurting right now and hoping that justice will ultimately be served.  

To echo IU Vice President James Wimbush, who eloquently expressed his sadness and great concern earlier today on the reaction, in his home city of Indianapolis, to George Floyd’s death, the list is far too long of those black and brown individuals who have been subjected to disturbing violence in recent years. This list underscores the racism, bigotry, intolerance and hatred that too many members of our society, especially people of color, are forced to confront on a daily basis. It also draws our attention to the deeply disturbing growth in recent years here and around the world in the number of hate groups, as well as the immensely concerning increase in the number of acts of hatred and violence against minorities.

Here at IU, students of color now make up more than a quarter of the university’s total enrollment. Hence what is happening in Minneapolis and other cities around the nation serves as a powerful reminder that we have a special obligation to work to ensure that our campus communities are places where differences of all kinds, whether of race, ethnicity or belief, are respected, valued and protected, and where hatred, bigotry and intolerance will be powerfully condemned.

We are all members of an educational community, and as such, we must always, as part of the very core of what we do, face the challenges inherent in understanding and evaluating the ideas, assertions and arguments that come from other perspectives, other traditions, other disciplines and other beliefs, as we pursue our fundamental mission of searching for knowledge and truth. At the same time, we cannot afford to ignore the lessons drawn from the serious and informed study of present-day racism and intolerance and their deep connections with centuries-old traditions of suspicion and hatred. Much important scholarship is taking place at IU in these areas, and that scholarship has never been more important.

We must continue to insist that there is absolutely no room at IU for discrimination or harassment based on anyone’s actual or perceived race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin or political beliefs. We see our diversity as one of our cardinal virtues. We are extremely proud of our students of color and their achievements – students who are such a vital part of the cultural and historical fabric of our institution, but we will have failed them if we cannot provide to them campus environments where they feel safe, supported and respected. 

In the days and months ahead, we must strongly reaffirm Indiana University’s fundamental commitment to diversity and equity. We must condemn those who seek to divide us based on race, ethnicity, national origin and other areas. We must join together as a strong and vigorous educational community to be inclusive, supportive and welcoming to all. And we must always stand up for what is good and right.

#BlackLivesMatter is not just a cardboard sign. White educators and PD providers: you have a role in ending systemic oppression. Have conversations about race in your classroom. Embed Black history in culturally sensitive curricula. Work to abolish the school-to-prison pipeline --see the effects of policing on yr own students. Support students as they work thru racial trauma. Really ask yourself what "equity" means in your work. No matter whether you can do it in the streets, you can in the classroom. https://twitter.com/trussleaders…/status/1267333391604527104
Like many of you, I have followed the events in Minneapolis and the demonstrations in cities around the nation in response to the tragic death of George Floyd with a mixture of deep sadness, frustration, anger and disappointment. My heart goes out to all those feeling pain and anguish over this senseless death and to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives in the protests of recent days or who have suffered loss and damage in other ways. It is truly difficult to comprehend this tragedy and to find the right words to console the many people, especially members of the African-American community, who are hurting right now and hoping that justice will ultimately be served.  

To echo IU Vice President James Wimbush, who eloquently expressed his sadness and great concern earlier today on the reaction, in his home city of Indianapolis, to George Floyd’s death, the list is far too long of those black and brown individuals who have been subjected to disturbing violence in recent years. This list underscores the racism, bigotry, intolerance and hatred that too many members of our society, especially people of color, are forced to confront on a daily basis. It also draws our attention to the deeply disturbing growth in recent years here and around the world in the number of hate groups, as well as the immensely concerning increase in the number of acts of hatred and violence against minorities.

Here at IU, students of color now make up more than a quarter of the university’s total enrollment. Hence what is happening in Minneapolis and other cities around the nation serves as a powerful reminder that we have a special obligation to work to ensure that our campus communities are places where differences of all kinds, whether of race, ethnicity or belief, are respected, valued and protected, and where hatred, bigotry and intolerance will be powerfully condemned.

We are all members of an educational community, and as such, we must always, as part of the very core of what we do, face the challenges inherent in understanding and evaluating the ideas, assertions and arguments that come from other perspectives, other traditions, other disciplines and other beliefs, as we pursue our fundamental mission of searching for knowledge and truth. At the same time, we cannot afford to ignore the lessons drawn from the serious and informed study of present-day racism and intolerance and their deep connections with centuries-old traditions of suspicion and hatred. Much important scholarship is taking place at IU in these areas, and that scholarship has never been more important.

We must continue to insist that there is absolutely no room at IU for discrimination or harassment based on anyone’s actual or perceived race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin or political beliefs. We see our diversity as one of our cardinal virtues. We are extremely proud of our students of color and their achievements – students who are such a vital part of the cultural and historical fabric of our institution, but we will have failed them if we cannot provide to them campus environments where they feel safe, supported and respected. 

In the days and months ahead, we must strongly reaffirm Indiana University’s fundamental commitment to diversity and equity. We must condemn those who seek to divide us based on race, ethnicity, national origin and other areas. We must join together as a strong and vigorous educational community to be inclusive, supportive and welcoming to all. And we must always stand up for what is good and right.



Johns Hopkins University and Medicine shared a message Sunday in solidarity against racism. The message responds to the rise of anti-Asian discrimination during the coronavirus pandemic and the deaths of African Americans that have sparked recent protests in cities across the U.S., including in Baltimore.

Johns Hopkins released the following statement:

Dear Members of the Johns Hopkins Community,

In the past three months, across the U.S. and around the globe, we have experienced extraordinary challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In communities of which Johns Hopkins is a part—from Baltimore City, Washington, D.C., Prince George's, Howard, and Montgomery Counties to St. Petersburg, Florida, and many more—we have witnessed our African American, Latinx, Native American, and poverty-stricken communities disproportionately dying from COVID-19, while our Asian and Asian American communities have been targeted with vitriol because of the disease's origins. People have lost family members, and the economic impact of this pandemic has led to many people having lost their jobs.

This has been a tremendous burden for many to bear. The recent death of George Floyd in Minneapolis as well as the deaths of Breonna Taylor, a first responder in Louisville, Kentucky, shot in her own bed while sleeping; Ahmaud Arbery, shot while jogging near Brunswick, Georgia; and far too many others reinforce the brutal truth that the African American community still remains vulnerable to senseless violence, even during a pandemic. For those of us in Baltimore, these tragedies also call to mind the death of Freddie Gray while in police custody five years ago. And this moment serves as a reminder of the compounding effects on our communities.

Because we are all intricately connected by our common humanity, if one segment of our community is hurting, it adversely impacts all of us. This is not just an issue for African Americans; it is an issue that threatens the future for all Americans.

We hear the needs of the Johns Hopkins community to have an honest dialogue about these issues and develop steps to address them through our daily activities and relationships, scholarship and teaching, and health care delivery and leadership. We must acknowledge that these vulnerabilities to violence and health crises faced by black and brown communities are born out of continued racial disparities in education, employment, housing, and criminal justice. To that end, under the leadership of the JHM Office of Diversity and Inclusion and in collaboration with other groups across Johns Hopkins, we will host a Journeys in Healing symposium series, "The Language of the Unheard: A Virtual Town Hall on Racial Injustice," in early June. More details will follow once dates have been solidified.

We also recognize and acknowledge the anguish that these recent incidents are causing for our faculty, students, staff, trainees, and alumni across the Johns Hopkins family. We encourage you to access the many supportive services available. At JHM, these services include mySupport, Spiritual Care and Chaplaincy, the Office of Well-Being, the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, and the JHM Office of Diversity and Inclusion. University affiliates can reach out to mySupport, find student wellness resources at wellness.jhu.edu or on the Student Outreach and Support site, or contact the Office of Institutional Equity for assistance.

During this time of immense challenge, let us work together to be a light to facilitate education, healing, connection, support, and service to each other and to our community.


Open Letter to the Students of Johnson C. Smith University

The World Needs YOU Now More Than Ever 
In the midst of a pandemic that has affected nearly every continent on earth, that has exposed and laid bare the inequalities borne most heavily by the poor and underserved of our community; we now find this country in the midst of facing once again the harsh reality of the legacy of racism, the seeds of which were planted over 400 years ago on this continent. In the last several weeks we have witnessed Ahmaud Arbery's senseless killing while jogging in Georgia; black delivery men in an Oklahoma gated community being held against their will for failing to answer the questions of two white men who questioned the delivery men's right to have entered their enclave; a white female New York City investment banker call the police on a black man who merely asked that she follow the law and leash her dog while in Central Park; and most recently, the shocking death of George Floyd as a white police officer kneeled on his neck for over 8 minutes, literally two minutes after he had already gasped his last breath.

The cumulative effect of these events and similar events, which occurred in years past, has led to understandable frustrations that ask the question: When will this end? The insidious nature of racism suggests that it may not be soon, but it is my hope that you and your peers at institutions of higher education throughout this country, especially those attending HBCUs, will lead this country to a new understanding of its obligations to ensure that the inequality gap does not continue to expand and that we make certain all members of society have the opportunities to reach their full potential.

Two weeks ago, 70 HBCUs, including Johnson C. Smith University, participated in a nationwide commencement celebration. President Barack Obama was among the many people who offered words of wisdom to our graduates.  I am reminded of something he said in making an observation of the state of the world and the significance of the graduates being honored that day. To paraphrase, he said: "We need you now, more than ever!" I wholeheartedly agree with President Obama.  It is critical that your voices are heard; your perspectives are seen; and your experiences are acknowledged in helping to examine, explore and resolve many of the stresses that are threatening to rip the fabric of our society apart.

I know the events of the last few days may have you confused and wondering where is your place in the world.  I would amplify President Obama's call to you: We need you now, more than ever!  And we, the faculty, staff, administration and Trustees of JCSU stand ready, willing and able to prepare you to take on the issues of injustice and inequality facing this country and the world.

Stay safe! We are looking forward to the day when we can reconvene on campus as the unified, resilient and strong community that we are. 

Sincerely,

Clarence D. Armbrister signature

Clarence D. Armbrister, J.D.

President
As we work to reawaken our university community from our COVID-19 isolation, we also must contend with social injustice issues plaguing our country. At the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, around the country, we witnessed acts of prejudice toward those from China and other Asian countries. Now, we are witnessing protests over the killing of black and Latino individuals by law enforcement officers. This is clearly no time to be silent on issues of social justice.

A number of K-State faculty and staff have meaningfully engaged the Kansas higher education community in dialogue on these matters. We believe, unapologetically, that there is nothing to debate. Social injustice is alive and well and more often than not, finds its way to the doorsteps and lives of individuals in the most marginalized communities.

We recognize these acts of injustice may not have taken place on our campuses or in our communities, but they can still have a profound impact on our community members. Our students, faculty, staff and administrators are affected by these acts of injustice. In some cases, members of our community may think this could happen to them, their family members or their friends.

The Kansas State University Police Department is dedicated to our community and strives to earn our confidence and respect. We know this respect is hard-won and can be easily lost — it only takes one incident to erase years of goodwill. Our officers are highly professional and well trained in how to interact with our community members. We have confidence they endeavor to uphold our community values. In this time of strife, they also deserve our continued respect and support. 

At Kansas State University, we affirm the inherent dignity and value of every person and strive to maintain an atmosphere of justice based on respect for each other. We understand the impact these acts of social injustice have on marginalized communities and their allies. We stand with you and we ask our community members to demonstrate the empathy, sympathy and social responsibility that reflects the same accountability we expect of those entrusted to protect and serve.

Those who have been impacted by recent events are encouraged to contact Student Life or Counseling Services by calling 785-532-6927.

Social injustice has always been with us, but we must stand up for what's right and support those who feel threatened or marginalized.
We all have spent much of the last few days watching as the nation mourns the death of George Floyd. We join the nation in mourning. Our collective sorrow remembers Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery, two African Americans also killed this year. Our grief and pain also are tied to the reality that African Americans along with other marginalized communities are disproportionately impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Closer to home, two members of our beloved Golden Flashes community, state Sen. and Kent State Associate Professor of Political Science Vernon Sykes and state Rep. and Kent State alumna Emilia Strong Sykes, received threats related to their duties as elected state officials. Additionally, on May 3, an individual known to authorities for his anti-Semitic views was heard asking a store clerk in Stow the location of Kent State and made comments that could be perceived as threatening to the Jewish community. Fortunately, the individual did not make it to Kent and was arrested on another charge.

In recent statements by both Black United Students and the Undergraduate Student Government, these issues are on the minds of many of our student leaders who are actively working toward a vision of equity and justice that will shape a better future.

It is the hope and aspirations of our students, combined with the history and lessons of May 4, 1970, that remind us of the need to study the root causes of current troubles as we search for a better future. We are called to learn more about the structures, histories, assumptions, prejudices and cultures that lead to disparate outcomes in healthcare, in the judicial system and in myriad aspects of our lives. We are thankful that our Kent State historians, sociologists, public health professors, Peace and Conflict Studies and Pan-African Studies professors, and many, many others are participating in these national conversations. Understanding and improving the world we inhabit are central to what we do at Kent State, as is our commitment to kindness and respect in all that we do.

As we work to reopen our university safely, let us remember that many of our community members live daily with injustices that inflict pain, trauma and a host of other emotions. As Golden Flashes, we ask that you recommit yourselves to the promotion of equity and justice and continue to lift up our institutional values of respect, kindness and purpose. We appreciate each of you and look forward to continuing the work of making our community equitable and inclusive for all.





The recent tragic events in Minneapolis around the death of George Floyd, as well as other incidents of violence inflicted upon African Americans in our country, have shocked the nation and deeply affected all of us.  Our deepest sympathies go out to the family and loved ones of Mr. Floyd and the families and friends of those who have lost their lives to other horrific and senseless acts of racism. These events further demonstrate our need to stand together as a community and take ownership of our obligation to fight against the systemic discrimination and racial disparities that continue to plague our nation.

As members of the Lehigh University community, we must affirm our values—equality, peaceful dialogue, the free exchange of ideas and the encouragement of respectful debate—and support the condemnation and repudiation of systemic discrimination, hate and intolerance and their violent manifestation. We must continue to affirm our shared responsibility to fight ignorance, model inclusive excellence and embrace the power of diversity.

It is our shared responsibility to work together to create a society in which discrimination and racism are no longer tolerated.  We must play an active role in understanding, candidly engaging in dialogue, and solving the problems of racial inequity and injustice.

While I would not presume to speak about the experience of African Americans, I know African Americans in the Lehigh community are feeling anger, outrage and fear in the wake of the violence we have witnessed. I once again ask that we as a Lehigh community recommit to our shared values; reject hatred, bigotry and intolerance; and reflect on what each of us can do, large or small, and how we can come together with hope and determination to create a more just, actively inclusive and equitable community.




I recall, back in early January, thinking about the powerful imagery of the year 2020 and imagining a world where we would have a better and more acute vision of our collective humanity. 

Now, nearly midway through this year, the quest appears even more pressing. Collectively, we are facing the challenge of a lifetime. In the midst of a pandemic, we watch as people across North America mobilize against injustice and racism, provoked in particular by the tragic death of George Floyd one week ago.

Feelings of sadness, anger, fear, and a sense of helplessness are shared by all of us. I recognize that many members of our community, especially our Black students, faculty, and staff, may need support at this time; resources are listed below. 

Yet, in this turbulent moment, it remains critical to remember that our strength lies in our unity and in living the principles that McGill embraces in its mission. Among those principles are equity and inclusiveness. Living these principles means going beyond publicly denouncing racism and other forms of social injustice. We are also called to consider how universities have the responsibility, to confront and work to flatten social inequities through dialogue and the advancement of knowledge. Every one of us shares in this responsibility as we live through a moment in history that calls for leadership and action anchored to knowledge, compassion, and courage.

We are living during a time of profound hurt, anger, frustration and, for many, a time of deep disappointment and despair regarding the recent high-profile violent events targeting Black Americans – the most recent being the inescapable images of George Floyd, dying while a police officer knelt on his neck.   

The shocking events in Minnesota, as well as too many other similar killings in communities including Ahmaud Arbery, killed while jogging, and Breonna Taylor, who was shot to death by police raiding her home, bring much pain, anger and trauma to many members of our community, and we cannot let them go unnoticed or unacknowledged. They are incomprehensible. Unjust. Inhumane.  

First and foremost, as leaders of this university, it is important that we speak out against these atrocities. To our Black students, faculty and staff, know that we both stand with you. The university stands with you.

It is important, as Spartans, that we collectively understand and acknowledge the impact of racism and that the Black community is under attack in many ways right now. In addition to the recent deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and so many others who are targeted because of their skin color, we have a global health pandemic that is powerfully and incontrovertibly revealing the inequities in our society.  

All of this is taking a heavy emotional toll on many of our friends, families and fellow Spartans. These events remind us that we have a responsibility to engage in the work necessary to understand we live in a diverse world and a diverse campus community, and by virtue of this we also have a responsibility to each other to respond to these injustices – acknowledge them, empathize with one another and accept each other.

We are committed to building an inclusive environment here at MSU, one that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. However, this commitment must be manifested in ways that extend well beyond words. We hope you will do what you can as students, faculty and staff at MSU to fight racism, disrupt injustice and actively support each other. The next several months will test our resolve, our community and our nation. 
****tweeted image**



During the past weeks and months, disturbing, racially charged situations and tragic deaths have occurred across the U.S. – including Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, Christian Cooper and most recently George Floyd. We are now witnessing protests in cities across the U.S., some of which have been marked by violence.

On our own campus we also recently experienced the impact of racially charged posts on social media made by incoming freshmen.

One student posted a disturbing video to My Story on Snapchat. A person in the My Story group re-posted it on Twitter. Perhaps the intent of the video can be debated. Its impact cannot.

Another student used an offensive racial slur while engaging in a social media exchange with a black student from her high school.

Many of you have reached out to share the hurt, anger and disbelief you experienced upon watching the video. It demonstrates a disturbing lack of empathy and respect for the death of Mr. Floyd, his family and others who have suffered similarly while in police custody.

Many others have expressed anger and disbelief at the nature and tone of the hurtful social media posts.

After seeing these social media posts and viewing the video, I, too, was horrified. My first impulse was to rescind the offer of admission to these students. But then I was reminded of a couple of things.

Missouri State University is a public university with a public affairs mission.

As a public university we are legally required to uphold the principles of free speech embodied in the First Amendment to the Constitution. The video – as hurtful, insensitive and offensive as it is – is protected by the First Amendment, as was the language in the social media posts.

I will admit that it was tempting to ignore the First Amendment in this case. Doing so would violate our legal obligations but, more importantly, it would effectively prevent the university from accomplishing its mission.

Missouri State has a responsibility to educate students on the three pillars of our public affairs mission – ethical leadership, community engagement and cultural competence. The video and the social media posts clearly reveal that these students – and, let’s be honest, many of us – are in desperate need of education, training and experiences that will help us develop cultural consciousness as well as cultural competence.

We cannot expect or require that students come to us fully formed, possessing all of the skills and characteristics that exemplify Citizen Scholars. It is our job and our duty to help them develop these traits through education and exposure.

Recognizing the impact of the video and the social media post, these students have chosen to withdraw from the university. We had planned to allow them to join our campus community in the fall, knowing that this decision would be ridiculed, questioned and second-guessed. But it was under the conditions that they participate in additional education and training to assist them in both understanding the impact of their actions and in developing cultural competence.

Social media is rife with opportunities to damage reputations or hurt thousands of people with one statement or one video. It is important that we are all mindful of its impact and if we choose to participate, to think very carefully before we post.

As one might expect, these students have been bombarded with hate, ridicule and even death threats. Both are 18 years old. While they displayed poor judgement, they don’t deserve to have their lives threatened.

As a university, we are acutely aware that many of our incoming students of all backgrounds may have made poor choices when posting on social media when they were teenagers. These are formative years when people change and grow. As a university, we are not going to police everyone’s social media accounts. We legally cannot and, in my opinion, should not bar a student from entry for offensive comments posted as an adolescent. I believe in grace, redemption and the probability that a college education can change people for the better. It did me.

That being said, we will continue to educate our students on the three pillars of our public affairs mission. And given the current environment, we will continue to give special emphasis to the awareness, knowledge and skills required to be culturally competent in a global society and world.

Thank you for all you do for Missouri State.
We have no tolerance for discrimination or acts of hate in our community. No matter where you come from, no matter your race, gender, identity, preference or perspective, we all come together to learn, and everyone deserves to be treated with respect and to thrive.
At MIT, Commencement is the most beautiful day of the year. Even in this strange pandemic moment, this afternoon’s graduation celebration will offer us all the opportunity to celebrate the wonderful spirit, character and accomplishments of our newest graduates.

That joy is and should be perfect and untouchable.

But I write with a heart that is also full of anguish – because it is impossible to face this particular day without an overwhelming sense of concern for our nation.

The death of George Floyd and the events unfolding in Minneapolis are deeply disturbing in themselves. And of course, they come on the heels of highly charged incidents, from Georgia to New York, that highlight yet again the tragic persistence of racism and systemic injustice in the United States.

I know that the pain of these events is especially intense for certain members of our community, beginning with those who are African American and of African descent, though certainly not ending there. And I know that, in this time of tension around the pandemic and rising strains in US-China relations, others in our community are also suffering distinctive forms of harassment and discrimination.

I imagine that you may share my urgent desire to help, while feeling an awful powerlessness to do so. At this moment, let’s do what we can. I believe a place to begin is by cherishing and seeking to strengthen our dear MIT community. Imperfect, certainly. But a community with an essential commitment to facing hard facts, thoughtfully striving to correct our errors – and working together to address humanity’s greatest challenges. A community where we aspire always to treat one another with sympathy, humility, decency, respect and kindness.

Let us treasure and care for that community – and let us work to make it better.

In the days and months to come, I would like us to find meaningful ways to come together to work on these challenges, for ourselves and for our society. I have asked John Dozier, our Institute Community and Equity Officer, to guide us in this effort. You may reach him directly at jdozier@mit.edu.

For now: I take hope in turning my thoughts to the new graduates we share with the world this afternoon. Today is our beloved Commencement day, a day when we honor the achievements of our graduating students and charge them with helping to heal the world. That charge will be all the more meaningful now, grounded in the very present struggles for our nation and for the world.

With great love and concern for our community and our nation,
There are events in our days that define our lives as well as our national consequence. We are witnessing one of such moments of definition as individuals and as a nation.

Just starting to emerge from the disorienting experiences provoked by a debilitating pandemic, last week we learned about the tragedy of George Floyd, an African American man who died lying on a street in Minneapolis, while pleading for his life. This past Sunday in Bozeman, community leaders, including MSU students, thoughtfully organized a peaceful demonstration that brought together thousands in support of Black Americans and all people of color, while committing to take on the challenge of dismantling racism, seeking justice and promoting peace. I am proud to see our community members making their voices heard in peaceful, productive ways in an effort towards positive change.

At this historic hour, we stand with our students, faculty and staff of color and with every individual - irrespective of race, ethnicity and gender - who is feeling fear, anger and pain because of these events. You are not alone and we see you.

Our heart also goes out to people who are victimized and caught in the confusion created by others who want to take advantage of this situation to sow discord and destruction. We cannot condone violence in any of its senseless expressions.

We have a responsibility - and the opportunity - to work together to address the injustice and inequality that our founding as a public university sought to eradicate. As the land-grant institution of the state, your Montana State University is committed to maximizing access and success for everyone, to finding lasting solutions, and to build a better world and a more just society.

In these times more than ever, we see the value and urgency of the power of education, diversity and community. In the coming weeks, there will be opportunities for MSU students, faculty, staff and neighbors to participate in conversation and action, as part of our mission to engage with the communities we serve. As one of our institutional documents proudly proclaims, "We believe that excellence at Montana State University is best achieved through a culture of intellectual and personal growth that is diverse and inclusive."

Let us come together as one people to create an environment in which our differences are the source of our strength. 



For as long as I live, I will never forget the horrific video of Mr. George Floyd being woefully asphyxiated by the knee of a morally bankrupt officer of the law. For what seemed like an eternity, we witnessed Mr. Floyd's very breath being extinguished from him. His cries of "mama" and "I can't breathe" fell empty on the ears of the callous and cold-hearted officer. I have not been able to sleep restfully since witnessing this tragedy.

I know our community is hurting, yet again, at the sight of another unarmed young Black man die at the hands of those sworn to protect and serve. I know our blood is boiling and our emotions are high. Believe me, I truly understand! As the father of a young Black man, and as an uncle and a great uncle to scores of other young men, I have great empathy for the families who endure such atrocities of civil and human rights. No family should ever have to experience the loss of a loved one in such a brutal and overtly racist manner.

Even in light of what I've said, I say to all of us, let's stand up for the value of our lives, but if you feel compelled to protest this great injustice, please do so peacefully and with the best interest of your fellow man and woman. We must triple our efforts to rid our society of racism—which, seemingly, in the modern era, has resulted in a practice that Black male lives, in particular, are dispensable.

Go forward and voice your collective stand against injustice with vigor, passion and solidarity in the true Morgan tradition, but as you do, please do so peacefully.

United in equality and humanity,


Research and data clearly show that structural racism and the experience of day-to-day racism result in significant and compounding negative health impacts for people of color. We will highlight these data over the next few weeks and hope you will follow along.
Racism and associated health impacts.



The death of George Floyd has brought us to a point of inflection throughout our country, and it has done so for multiple reasons.

Mr. Floyd's death was captured on video, so we have been forced to see a truth we would rather not believe. That video is both heartbreaking and infuriating. No decent person could watch the extermination of a helpless human being in such a callous manner without experiencing feelings of true anger and despair.

We all have seen this story before, and far too frequently. We have watched as many, particularly men of color, have lost their lives to violence and hate. The circumstances may change, as may the individuals involved, but the result is devastatingly consistent.

Yes, we all have tried to say the right things after these incidents--we have expressed our disgust as well as our grief and sympathy.

Have we DONE the right things, though?

Have we challenged racism and ignorance, even when we see it expressed subtly in "polite company" by those we would consider to be colleagues or friends? Have we honestly questioned and explored our own biases and how they shape our behaviors? Have we worked hard enough to create diversity, and with it greater understanding of and appreciation for one another, throughout our networks and organizations? Have we been guilty of, despite our best intentions, moving on to the next crisis of the day and failing in our commitment to make positive change?

I have struggled to find the right words at this time, and to posit some answers for how we sustain the necessary systemic change. Maybe the questions I posed in the previous paragraph must be examined with unvarnished candor, thereby affecting our individual actions, our willingness to speak out and, as a result, affect those around us while strengthening our efforts to achieve systemic change.

I am extremely proud to be part of a richly diverse university community that is strengthened by its diversity. I believe NJIT serves as an example of what most communities should strive for, but that does not mean we can pretend what we have seen is not our problem. It is our problem, and we have a responsibility that we cannot shirk. Please join me in committing to not let this moment pass without becoming better as individuals and as a community. I welcome your thoughts and suggestions for how to accomplish those goals. My thoughts and prayers are with the family of George Floyd and all those who feel angry, sad, and powerless at this time. We must work hard to resolve the issue of racism thoughtfully, peacefully, and with accountability for those who disregard the value of life of our fellow Americans.

Once again, we find ourselves filled with sorrow, outrage, and grief over a loss of yet another Black person's life at the hands of law enforcement that was tragic, unjust, and avoidable. There have been numerous appalling events over the last few weeks during an already difficult time—a pandemic. While it is hard to find words to describe the shocking ghastliness of the videoed last minutes of George Floyd's life on a Minneapolis street, with a police officer's knee on his neck, the poignant and unheeded pleas of Mr. Floyd and the bystanders—as in previous occurrences—remain haunting. His cries tear at our hearts, just as the knowledge that events like this seem to happen again and again and again rips not only at our conscience but at what we all consider to be a just and humane society.

This is one of those moments when reason and knowledge and discourse, which university citizens prize so highly, often doesn't seem like enough of a response. How could they be, when these deaths keep recurring, and when racism continues to manifest itself, even in our own community?

But reason, discourse, study, evidence, analysis—those are our tools, and events like the killing of George Floyd should not cause us to set them aside, but instead to redouble our exertions to use them in the cause of addressing racism, xenophobia, violence, and hate to underscore social justice, human dignity, inclusion, and peace. Many of our scholars already study the issues so evident in the Floyd video—inequality, race, and the inequities of the criminal justice system. Over the summer, I will be examining—and I am sure this will be true for many of you, too—how else our University might contribute to the goal of creating more just practices and systems. In the meantime, on behalf of the NYU community, I offer our University's sympathies to the family and loved ones of George Floyd, with whom we grieve for his lost life and the unspeakable suffering to which he was subjected, as well all of those impacted by this and the other terrible recent events. To deal with these types of issues while simultaneously navigating a pandemic that is giving rise to differential impacts on communities of color, and in particular, those of African descent, is especially oppressive.

Finally, my heart goes out to those in our own community who have been feeling overwhelmed by grief or apprehension because of fear for their own safety, their families, and loved ones. I want to remind you that NYU stands with you, and we have resources to help: for students at the Wellness Exchange, and for employees through Carebridge. And please also note that the Office of Global Inclusion (OGI) continues to plan events for the community.



As I write this, cities across the country, including here in Greensboro and around North Carolina, are ablaze in unrest and souls in anguish over George Floyd’s death at the hands of Minneapolis police. It was a scene, unfortunately, like many we have seen before, in which the life of an African American man is extinguished in a confrontation that, at minimum, could have been deescalated; at best, avoided entirely. It leaves millions of us around our nation with a reasonable and just question: Why? In the absence of an acceptable answer – and to be clear, there is no acceptable answer – we are left with heavy hearts, sick with grief, inflamed with anger.   

I join the Aggie family in grieving the loss of George Floyd and in voicing a commitment that his death cannot be allowed to pass in vain. As the leader of the nation’s largest historically black university, an institution borne of the bigotry connected by a straight line of history to Floyd’s death, I appreciate the weight of this moment on the shoulders of our students, their families, our faculty and staff and our alumni. As we collectively bear witness to this injustice, we do so from the vantage point of our university, and the tools and knowledge we can bring to bear in this moment of pain and despair. What can our faculty and students do to bring understanding and context to this incident? What measures of change and solution can their scholarly work make clear? What light can they shed on intersecting dynamics of race, the criminal justice system, history, economics and the human psyche that will illuminate truth for a troubled nation? 

In the weeks and months ahead, I pray that the moral imperative of this moment will not fade, and that we will rise to the challenges that our leadership has prepared us to meet. If the aftermath of George Floyd’s death is, indeed, not to be mere protest but a predicate for change in which minds, hearts, policies and practices are forever altered, it will only do so if it is nourished by knowledge and truth. Let us commit ourselves collectively to surfacing those invaluable ingredients of change. 

For now, I encourage all of us to avail ourselves of the community and family ties that bind us at A&T. Lean on one another for comfort, and don’t be afraid to reach out if you are struggling. For our students, additional help is available through Counseling Services at 336-334-7727, Monday through Friday, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. For faculty and staff, the university’s Employee Assistance Program services provider, ComPsych Guidance Resources, is here for you at 866-511-3373, password: NCAT. This service is confidential and free of charge to you as an employee.
I write today as a leader of one of the nation's Historically Black Colleges and Universities. First, I would like to express my deep condolences to the family of Mr. George Floyd who was killed by Minneapolis, Minnesota, police officers on May 25, 2020. On behalf of North Carolina Central University, I join citizens from across our nation and around the world in expressing deep concern about this blatant tragedy and condemning its perpetrators. This incident highlighted how equality and justice are not fairly dispensed in our country. 

We are all incensed by the disturbing images of African Americans whose lives have been taken violently across the nation. As we grieve and try to make sense of these tragic deaths and incidents, we also seek reassurance that justice will be served swiftly and those who are responsible will be held accountable. 

As a community of students, faculty, and staff, we must together call for the restructuring of our judicial system to create one that dispenses justice equally, regardless of racial, ethnic or sexual orientation. As an institution that was founded by a visionary and fearless leader, this university represents the values that Dr. James E. Shepard exhibited with incredible fortitude and strength as he built a progressive learning institution for African Americans in Durham in the early 1900s. Intent on his mission despite the history of oppression that African Americans and other communities of color had faced, Dr. Shepard demonstrated that no obstacle is insurmountable.

The events surrounding us today represent another moment in history when silence and status-quo are no longer acceptable. I ask you to appeal to our local, state and federal leaders to address the ongoing pattern of racial injustice and disparities that exist within our society and embrace public policies that can truly achieve this country's ideals.

I am counting on each of you, as Eagles, to lead us in seeking a more perfect union. As Dr. King said in his historic "I Have a Dream"speech in 1963, we all seek to live in a nation where we will not be judged by the color of our skin, but by the content of our character.  NCCU continues to uphold and nurture an environment of diversity and inclusion that celebrates and respects all voices and opinions.

Students, faculty and staff: In this painful time, I urge you to take advantage of the resources made available in your university community. I encourage students to contact the Counseling Center if you need assistance dealing with this very difficult moment. Faculty and staff may access the Employee Assistance Program to learn about assistance options available. 

Together, let us keep on pursuing a peaceful quest for equality and justice in the days, weeks and months to come. I hope each of you remain secure in knowing the NCCU community is standing by your side. 
he inhumane and unjust circumstances surrounding the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis on Monday have left many in our community, myself included, feeling deep sorrow, frustration and understandable anger. Over the weekend we’ve witnessed this grief and anger displayed in many ways, including a peaceful protest in Raleigh, and unfortunately, separate acts of vandalism against many of our local businesses that have done so much to help build a culture of inclusion in our community.

As a higher education community dedicated to thought and action that improves the world around us, we condemn acts of racism, discrimination and violence.

In the course of the past few months, we have again witnessed more instances of violence against people of color – including Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery – that serve as a continual and painful reminder that unjust racial disparities continue in our country. How could we not be sorrowful, and angry, at this moment? It is past time for drastically needed and rightful change.

We must acknowledge that a person’s race is still too often used to determine how they will be treated in almost every aspect of American life. And as a leading U.S. institution of higher education, we are committed to our critical role in helping right the injustices of racism and discrimination. I believe higher education can and should be a positive influence on lives well beyond academic instruction, and that we need to help lead the way forward toward equality, equity and justice for all in our country.

As the state’s largest public university, we have the responsibility to educate ourselves and those who pass through our doors to overcome ignorance, unite against intolerance, model inclusivity, and advance the dignity and power of diversity.

The events of this week must serve as a catalyst for all in our community to be unequivocally dedicated to building an inclusive environment that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. I remain committed to that goal, and expect you will do all you can in your role at NC State – as a student, faculty or staff member, or friend of the university – to eliminate racism and all other forms of discrimination.

As members of this intellectual community, I strongly encourage all of us to fight for positive change powerfully, thoughtfully and peacefully. I also encourage each of us to embrace with humility that we all have more to learn as it relates to understanding our own places of prejudice and how we can strive to overcome how these impact our own actions.

As Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity Sheri Schwab wrote in her recent Statement Regarding the Events in Minneapolis (if you haven’t yet read it, please do), Provost Arden and I have charged a task force to ensure advancing diversity, inclusion and well-being is inherent and represented in every aspect of NC State’s next 10-year Strategic Plan. We’ll be finalizing the plan over the summer, and encourage our community to provide your feedback via the Strategic Plan Task Force website.

Over the summer, I’ll also be working with Vice Provost Schwab and other university leaders to ensure opportunities for vital community discussions and feedback opportunities related to diversity and inclusion on campus when we return in the fall, in whatever format those need to take in the new COVID-19 environment.

In the meantime, please keep up with important diversity-and-inclusion-related news, events, announcements and opportunities to get involved by subscribing to the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity’s (OIED) Diversity Digest. Also, review the Diversity web portal from the university’s homepage to find education and training resources, diversity and inclusion programs, details about NC State’s Campus Community Centers, an events calendar and more important information.

NC State’s greatest strength is its people – all its people – and their diversity of thought and experience. It is on each and all of us to fight injustice and advance a truly diverse, inclusive and supportive environment for all on our campus and well beyond. That’s what it means to be part of this Wolfpack.
As a result of the events of the past week, we are writing to express support for all of us who may be struggling to understand and react and in particular our students and colleagues of color who may be experiencing pain and anguish.

North Dakota State University has clearly stated values in denouncing discrimination, harassment and retaliation as integral to our success as a student-focused, land-grant, research university.

What that means in difficult times is we support one another any way we can. We listen, we work to understand, we actively work together toward a more inclusive and accepting community for all of us.

More formally, we remind our community of support available through the following sources:

• Confidential resources to support students are available through the NDSU Counseling Center.

• Educational and reporting resources related to equity and inclusion may be found here.

• Confidential resources to support faculty and staff are available through the Employee Assistance Program.

• The University Ombuds is a resource for faculty members, graduate students and academic staff.

We also encourage us all to continue efforts to increase our understanding by reading, asking questions, listening and welcoming one another. 
We have heard the chorus of raised voices demanding that we make real, at last, the promise of American democracy for the many millions of African-Americans who have given so much to build it. We feel, in the words of Dr. King, "The fierce urgency of now."

On Monday, June 8, we will suspend all classes and close all administrative and academic offices on all of our campuses. We will use this time and space—exactly two weeks after the unjust and inhumane killing of George Floyd—to hold a Day for Reflection, Engagement, and Action. We will join together in unity with those all around the world who are grieving and angry over persistent injustice toward African-American citizens.

We will begin with an online vigil at 11 a.m. to remember George Floyd and all African-Americans whose lives have been brutally taken from us. At 2 p.m., we will feature a conversation with Professor of Law Margaret Burnham, founder of Northeastern's Civil Rights and Restorative Justice Project, on ways we can move forward together.

In the days that follow, we will commence a series of virtual town halls on race and justice led by Deans Uta Poiger and James Hackney, co-chairs of the Presidential Council on Diversity and Inclusion.

On June 19, we will gather on all of our campuses for a Day of Solidarity. June 19, often known as "Juneteenth"or Freedom Day, is traditionally a day to celebrate the emancipation of slaves in the U.S. We will gather together to listen, to speak, and to engage one another in advancing the cause of justice.

These events are just the beginning of a series of specific actions that Northeastern will undertake.

It is important to note that we won't always get it right. We won't always find the right words. But we must work together to address the pain. We must find the solidarity that we as a society—and as fellow human beings—so desperately need right now.

There is no time to waste. Working together in mutual trust and understanding to achieve the change that we seek, let us begin.
I felt outrage and disgust watching video of the fatal mistreatment of George Floyd in Minneapolis. 

And I was further sickened this morning when our recent graduate, CNN's Omar Jimenez, was arrested live on television for, as Medill Dean Charles Whitaker described it, "the sin of doing journalism."

Our Northwestern community grieves for the many ways in which our society tolerates and facilitates injustices, demonstrated so vividly in these and other recent events. 

Dean Whitaker poignantly expressed his personal pain as a father of African-American sons. Many of the rest of us can barely begin to imagine the personal toll that racism takes on marginalized communities every single day. But we can all increase our resolve to create a Northwestern community, and a world, where all people are accorded the dignity and the safety they deserve. 

Our nation must do better, and I pledge that I, and our university, will work toward that end.
The recent killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and now George Floyd are heartbreaking tragedies that further show the injustice and systemic racism the Black community faces every day. It's been hard to find the right words for this message because I keep imagining the images and videos capturing these horrific acts and the Black community struggling to be heard when crying out for justice and peace. My heart goes out to the families, friends, and those directly or indirectly impacted.

Blatant acts of racism, hatred, and police brutality should not be normalized again.  Unfortunately, we have been here before.  Many of us remember the recent names… Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice, Eric Garner, Sandra Bland, Atatiana Jefferson, Botham Jean, Philando Castile, and now Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and George Floyd, all victims of a shameful legacy of hate.  We must continue to say the names of those lost to senseless acts of violence and racism.

"I can't breathe"were some of the last words from Mr. Floyd before his life was taken right before our eyes. They were also the last words of Eric Garner in 2014. It is suffocating to exist in a space where Black lives are considered disposable with little hope for real systematic change. I pose this question: "what are we going to do to advocate for equity for our communities and nation?"
 
As a Society within this society, we want to see justice.  We want it in the cases dominating the news but also for the 99.9% of cases most of us will never hear about.  We expect justice to be dispatched swiftly and equitably, according to the law, and not influenced by income, race, or connections.  However, we would also like to see that equality extended to our educational institutions – at every level and to companies and industries solving our countries' most complex problems.  We should not be marginalized; as descendants of those who helped build this nation, we seek full participation in all aspects of society with a fair chance to help make America a more perfect union. 

Of course, we recognize that radical change requires allies; Black people do not have the numbers or resources to bring about systemic change alone.  So, we call on those who believe everyone deserves a chance to fulfill their potential to provide opportunities, to open doorways and create pathways for those who did not have access to the resources that produce advantages.  Finally, we ask those who believe in the mission of the National Society of Black Engineers to invest in this cause so our members can thrive and continue to be agents of positive change.

Now is the time for the conversation.  Now is the time for understanding.  This is the perfect time in history for our country to embrace national ideals for all of its citizens.  We implore righteous people to honor and protect our inalienable rights to liberty, opportunity, and equality. 

We cannot remain silent at a time like this.  We must call for political action to invoke social change, to end police brutality, and dismantle systemic racism.  We are not powerless. Nelson Mandela put it best when he said, "education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world."We encourage all NSBE members and allies to take action and let your voices be heard... mentor, vote, make calls, write, participate, post, march… be the example.

NSBE is compiling a list of health, grief, and wellness support resources to assist our members in coping with all of these troubling events; that information will be provided in another official communication.  Moreover, we are developing a team of leaders to create ways for our organization to use its platform to speak out on social justice issues.  Above all, I ask you to hold on to hope, to seek refuge in faith, and the knowledge that we will get to the other side of this bleak moment.  Together, we will overcome this adversity, as we have in the past, and continue our march toward a more just society. 

Continue to encourage one another, support one another, listen to one another, and love one another. In closing, NSBE loves you, and your life matters!   


We typically share with you a weekend email update on various COVID-19 related issues. We will send the update on Monday this week. 

I ask instead that we use this weekend to reflect on the horrific events of the past week and specifically on what we as individuals, as a community, and as a nation must do to prevent crimes like this from happening again. What can we do to make things different? 

George Floyd suffered a horrendous and completely unnecessary death. His killing, and those that have come before, demand that we create a different future. This can and must be our task. 

This time, we must act. That starts with dialogue, which I have renewed with key community partners. We must reaffirm our commitment as Buckeyes to our university values of inclusion, diversity and tolerance.

Today, let us also act by reflecting on what’s in our hearts and directing our activities to collaborative efforts to produce lasting change. 
Like many of you, we are deeply saddened by the acts of brutality our country has witnessed in recent days. These images and stories are painful reminders of the persistence of racial tension in our country, and they reaffirm the urgent need to stand in solidarity with our community members of color, especially African American community members.

As Directors within OHIO’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion, we understand the limitations of a statement like this at a time when many in our community are hurting so deeply. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to pose extraordinary challenges, made even more challenging by the images of violence we see flashing across our screens.

At the same time, we know that some of you may derive great benefit from campus resources to support your psychological and emotional well-being. For this reason, we encourage all of you to seek out campus resources that can provide support and encouragement to Ohio University community members. Some of them are highlighted below:

Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS)

CPS provides mental health and adjustment services to students and also consultation to faculty, administrators and parents who support our students.

Psychiatry and individual counseling through face-to-face video conferencing or audio phone therapy are just some of the services available to students through CPS.

Staff members in CPS also make referrals to a wide range of support services both on and off campus. Students may contact CPS at any time by calling 740-593-1616. If calling after hours, press 1 to be connected to a counselor. You can also visit their website at www.ohio.edu/student-affairs/counseling.

IMPACT Student Support Meetings

OHIO students are encouraged to email diversity@ohio.edu to express interest in attending an IMPACT meeting, which is a support group convened for any Ohio University student who wishes to discuss special issues that may be impacting our community of students.

These meetings are facilitated by Dr. Kristyn Neckles, psychologist and embedded clinician for our Division of Diversity and Inclusion, on a by-request basis. 

Employee Assistance Program

Ohio University's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and Work/Life program is offered through Impact Behavioral Healthcare Services.

The EAP is available to all Ohio University employees and their family members.

Visit Impact Employee Assistance (opens in a new window)(opens in a new window)and enter 'ohiouniversity' as the username under the heading Member Login to access informational materials and resources.

Program features include confidential 24/7 live professional assistance (1-800-227-6007) and more.

OHIO’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion remains unwavering in our commitment to offering support and safety so all Bobcats in their diverse identities and experiences can find support for their concerns, worries, and fears.

All staff members in our offices — the LGBT Center, the Multicultural Center, the Office of Multicultural Student Access and Retention/OMSAR, and the Women’s Center — stand ready to offer whatever support we can to our OHIO community as we work together to create a world that is safe, equitable, and compassionate for all. We are here for you - please do not hesitate to reach out to us if we can be of assistance.

In times like these, community is the strongest antidote we have to combat isolation and loneliness. You are not alone!
We are disheartened by the racial injustices in our country & hope justice is swiftly served for the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery & victims of senseless violence. To our Black students/employees—we see you, we hear you, we support you. Your voices matter.
I know our Monarch community joins me in expressing our collective outrage regarding the horrific and senseless killing of George Floyd. We send prayers to his family as well as our hopes that his tragic death will create not just a nationwide conversation, but a commitment from every member of American society to say "No more" to what we observed in Minneapolis or, before that, in Georgia. As a diverse and inclusive campus, we must continue to do our collective best to demonstrate for the world that at Old Dominion University we strive to learn from differences, leading to a greater understanding of one another.

 The primary role of police in America is to provide for the safety of all people by protecting them from criminals and to hold each of us accountable to the law. We expect police to apprehend criminals and work within the legal system to make certain that justice is blind and all are held accountable to the law.

We all have watched in horror videos being replayed over the past week showing the life of George Floyd brutally taken from him by a white police officer in Minneapolis, Minn., while three other officers sworn to uphold the law looked on in indifference. The officer who killed Mr. Floyd was arrested and all four of the officers were fired, but the other three officers simply went home.

Sadly, this horrific event is just the latest in a seemingly endless stream of acts of violence against Black and other people of color by police who are sworn to protect and serve them.

Mr. Floyd’s death comes on the heels of the Feb. 23 fatal shooting of Ahmaud Arbery by armed white residents as he was out jogging in a neighborhood in South Georgia. As well, the March 13 death of Breonna Taylor, who was shot in her Louisville, Ky. home by police. And the reporting to police last week of an African American man threatening a white woman when in fact he was in New York City’s Central Park to watch birds and simply asked her to keep her dog on a leash.

We continually hear speeches and testimonials about how unacceptable and terrible these acts are and how our leaders feel the pain of the Black community. Yet, nothing changes much and we act as if these horrific events are singular or isolated events. But these are not one-offs. They are the product of a failed justice system that perpetuates racism in America and too often a culture of silence within police forces that protects incompetent and hateful people simply because they wear the badge. We are condemned to relive these tragedies unless we make real change a priority throughout this country.

America must be a land of personal and equal freedom, safety and opportunity for all people. And to be certain, the police exist to protect us from predators and not to control us. That attitude should be universal in this country regardless of who we are, where we live or what we look like.

But how can we expect America and all people who live here — including communities of color — to thrive in the midst of such violence and injustice? How many times must we write the same messages expressing our outrage and hurt, sharing our thoughts and prayers for those harmed, and pleading for an end to injustice? How many acts of discrimination, injury and death must occur before our country confronts the realities of the lived experiences of people of color in our society? All of this must stop and that requires action not speeches.

Policing is a local function, but our system of policing requires systematic change across the country. On Monday, I will write the National Governors Association and urge the association and other groups to develop rules, training programs and disciplinary codes for appropriate policing to be enforced throughout America and for unions to step up and support the justice system in weeding out bad officers. Most police are good, dedicated, under-paid and hard working men and women, who risk their lives every day for the well-being of all people. They deserve our thanks and respect and they should not be subject to public scorn because we are incapable of holding some police accountable to the laws of our country and communities simply because they wear a badge.  

As a university community, we must join together to ensure that all members of the OSU community — students, faculty, staff and visitors — not only feel welcomed and safe, but experience our community as a place to thrive. Each and every member of our community must know they are valued, that they belong here, and that we celebrate the rich diversity that they bring to Oregon State University. We should not tolerate anything less. 

Our new police chief, Edgar Rodriguez understands that police must be a community partner that provide a sense of safety in the university and broader community.  As we hire officers for our police force, the Office of Institutional Diversity will continue to provide training to OSU public safety officers on implicit bias, foundations of power, privilege and oppression to ensure that our public safety practices are congruent with OSU’s values regarding inclusivity and opposing oppression. University leaders also will to seek to achieve agreements with police agencies in communities where OSU operates so that we may mutually advance inclusive justice for all people. 

The novel coronavirus pandemic has made all of us look at the inequities in our society. We call people essential workers and yet we systematically pay them less than living wages and deny them critical health care and quality education for themselves and their children, and we act surprised that they are disproportionately vulnerable to death from the COVID-19 pandemic because of pre-existing conditions and that they are disproportionately people of color. When do we get disgusted enough with what we have created and say enough? 

We have a policing problem in America, but it is part of a much deeper and broader failure of this society to live up to the promise of America, which continually eludes us.

As I prepare to step down as university president on June 30, I am confident that our university and the OSU community are in the right hands with incoming president King Alexander. He and I talk often and I know he shares my personal values and leadership commitment to inclusivity, safety and opportunity for all. I know that as OSU’s next president, he will be unwavering in helping advance the work of inclusive justice and opportunity for all that must be part of life within OSU — and across America.  Together with Chief Rodriguez, he will help us move in the right direction in our little part of the world.

In closing, I ask that each of us continue to participate in dialogue, leadership and understanding as we seek to alter the direction of society. I know this will not happen overnight, but by God it needs to happen soon. 
 It has been ten days since the world saw the video of George Floyd dying while a white police officer pressed his knee into Floyd's neck. It has been a week since protests began around the country and across New York, convulsing the city. Yesterday, hundreds if not thousands of New Yorkers gathered in Brooklyn, and then marched across the Brooklyn Bridge past One Pace Plaza, in a moving commemoration of Floyd's life. We join in mourning his loss.
 
During this time, we have been listening to the Pace Community and hearing the pain, anguish, and anger. We are reflecting on our commitments, talking with our Student Government Associations and Black Student Unions, and determining how we can move the University forward while doing more to fight for equality and justice. We know we haven't always gotten it right, and we want to do better.
 
We recognize that Floyd's death is not an isolated case. It has been three and a half months since Ahmaud Arbery was shot and killed while out for a jog; nearly three months since Breonna Taylor was shot and killed by police who'd broken into her apartment; ten days since Tony McDade was shot and killed by police investigating a stabbing. It will soon be 10 years since Danroy "DJ"Henry, a Pace student and football star, was shot and killed by a police officer in Pleasantville. We mourn those losses, too. We know there is much to be done. We are remembering and relearning the words of Angela Davis: "It is not enough to be non-racist, we must be anti-racist."
 
At Pace University, we are committed to being unbiased and anti-racist across our institution.
 
We are committed to hearing from all voices and empowering all parts of our community.
 
We are committed to standing up for what is right.
 
In the last academic year, we hired Pace's first chief diversity officer and established the new Division of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. That Division worked to update our hiring practices to mitigate bias and increase diversity, and it centralized key offices to streamline and focus their important work. There is much, much more to be done.
 
Today, we are committing to the following actions:
 

    We will establish a Presidential Task Force, composed of students, staff, faculty, and alumni and funded by the President's Office, to examine the Pace experience for all in our Community, including those who are Black, those who are brown, and those from other historically underrepresented groups. Under the guidance of the chief diversity officer, in partnership with other campus leaders, and guided by the findings of the forthcoming Diversity Climate Survey, the Presidential Task Force will design a plan with short- and long-term strategies for a more equitable and just Pace University. It will welcome input from all parts of the Pace Community. The Presidential Task Force will be formulated in the coming weeks and will issue its recommendations by the end of fall semester.

 

    We recognize that voices need to be heard and action needs to happen everywhere across the University, and we ask departments and divisions to review their areas to develop long-term commitments for systemic change. These recommendations will be developed by October 1, 2020, and forwarded to the Presidential Task Force for inclusion in the University's comprehensive plan.

 

    We will soon launch a reporting site on which members of the Pace Community can register incidents or experiences contradictory to the inclusive environment we seek to sustain. This site will launch during fall semester. Whether reported on this site or elsewhere, University leaders will always investigate and respond to incidents that are brought to our attention.

 

    In the next week, we will organize a community forum, modeled on this week's session for faculty and staff, in which all members of the Pace Community will be invited to share their experiences and their visions for how Pace can make a difference.

 

    We will design a comprehensive series of programming for the fall semester to examine racial justice in our community and our country, including honoring the memory of DJ Henry as we mark 10 years since his murder.

 
We welcome all in the Pace Community who wish to serve on the Presidential Task Force. Its agenda will not be set by the administration; it will be set by the community. The Presidential Task Force will convene in the coming weeks. If you're interested in serving on it, please contact diversity@pace.edu .
 
We had planned a Diversity Climate Survey for last semester, to capture critical voices and experiences to inform the work of the DEI Division. It will be launched when we return to campus. 
 
Fall programming already in development includes the Our Pledge Against Oppression discussion series, featuring panels on working toward anti-racism and examining race and the prison-industrial complex and a symposium on the absence of Black and Latina/o/x intellectual communities in academia; a teach-in series rooted in critical race theory; a social justice reading club; and the annual MLK lecture.
 
We have also compiled a list of resources to answer the question, "What can I do?"It is available at www.pace.edu/takeaction .
 
We know that this is just a start. But we are committing to do the work, and we will use these first steps as a basis for our future plans. We will have more information for you soon on next week's Zoom meeting, and more detail forthcoming on the Presidential Task Force and fall programming.
 
We have always believed that Pace's strength lies in its community. Despite the many and enormous challenges currently facing us, we still believe that. Let's stand up for each other, listen to each other, and work together to build an even better Pace. 



The tragic circumstances surrounding the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis, following other recent unspeakable tragedies, makes clear yet again that systemic discrimination and unjust racial disparities continue to plague our country. It is past time for change.

We cannot remain silent in the face of this heart-breaking reality. As an institution of higher education, we have an obligation to fight ignorance and intolerance, model inclusivity and embrace the power that diversity represents. 

In the face of hatred and bias, we must speak out. We must not accept apathy, indifference or silence, otherwise we allow hatred, prejudice and intolerance to grow. 

Our message today is, foremost, one of profound compassion for all who live in fear that the color of their skin, gender identity, ethnicity or religion makes them a target of hate. Our hearts ache as we can only imagine the trauma, pain and frustration that many are feeling at this time. 

This message also reaffirms Penn State’s commitment to disrupting hate, bias and racism whenever and wherever we encounter it, and to creating the most inclusive and diverse community that we possibly can – one that is free of discrimination; one that embraces differences; and one that respects all individuals. 

We support our community as you express your sadness and anger through peaceful protest, and we know it is even more challenging to support and lift each other up during this global pandemic, with the added difficulty of social distancing. However, please know that our entire University community grieves with you, supports you and joins with you as we strive for positive change. 

Our country has witnessed with horror the untimely deaths of George Floyd and Ahmaud Arbery, black men whose deaths have come even as we struggle to absorb the disproportionate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on minoritized communities. All around us, people of color are dying at a higher rate, making further visible the structural inequities that pervade every area of the American experience. 

As Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz said, "These are things that have been brewing in this country for 400 years."

It is easy to feel overwhelmed by these events and give in to despair. But we must not give up because we know that inaction supports injustice, inequity and racism. 

We must deepen our work to make our community one where justice and equity are central to who we are. We must work towards equity and justice at Portland State, in Portland, in Oregon, in America, and across the world. It will take intentional and collective action to dismantle systemic structures of oppression. 

We stand with communities in Minnesota and Georgia calling for justice, and we affirm our commitment to doing our own work to ensure that justice and equity are a core part of all of PSU.

Today, and always, black lives matter. 






Leebron: We must act to reduce deadly discrimination and racism
SPECIAL TO RICE NEWS – JUNE 1, 2020
POSTED IN: CURRENT NEWS, FEATURED STORIES


Share23
Rice President David Leebron sent the following message to the university community May 30:

President David Leebron
President David Leebron

We draw many things from being a community. We do things collaboratively. We define and share our values. We take collective joy in our successes. We commiserate when there are reasons for sadness. And we come together in times of crisis and danger.

Over the summer, when our students and also to some extent our faculty are dispersed, the immediate sense of community and our ability to rely on it is diminished. This year that is even more so since our education has been completely online since March. And although our students may still be seeing each other in classes on screens, many of the casual interactions that build our connections to each other no longer take place.

There is of course great sadness sweeping across our world and our country because of the pandemic. Many have lost friends and family members. Many more are living in isolation and under constant threat of danger to their health. Tens of millions have lost their jobs, and collectively our country is facing a level of unemployment and financial distress we have not seen in 90 years. And these burdens have fallen unequally on different communities.

And yet, amid all of that, there is now a deep pang of pain sweeping across America that cries out for recognition, that demands that our voices be heard.

Just three weeks ago I wrote on Twitter about the horrific shooting of Ahmaud Arbery, who was killed while jogging in the coastal city of Brunswick, Georgia, in late February. In mid-March, Breonna Taylor, a young emergency medical technician in Louisville, Kentucky, was killed in her apartment when police entered. And last week, George Floyd was killed in Minneapolis when an arresting officer knelt on his throat for over eight minutes.

pull quote

What these recent cases, and others, have in common is that they all involved victims who were black Americans. Black Americans who were treated as a threat when they weren’t. Black Americans who were treated as if they did not belong in a place when they did. Black Americans who were treated as if they were not a vital part of the fabric of this nation when they have fought and died and sacrificed for it as much as any others. Black Americans who were killed when the circumstances provided no justification.

There is anger and pain and fear across America, not because these are new things to deal with, but because they aren’t. Last fall, for example, Atatiana Jefferson, a young Xavier University graduate working in the pharmaceutical industry, was killed by a police officer who entered her home in Fort Worth, Texas, without identifying himself. The names of these victims are seared in our memories.

For the most part, I write to the campus about events only when they directly involve Rice, and usually when our campus is in session. But occasionally, external events, nearby or far away, are such that they reach deeply into our community and especially affect a valued part of the Rice community. And so although we are currently dispersed and these incidents did not directly involve members of the Rice community, we must acknowledge that these events cause pain and fear to a vital part of our community. It is a pain and fear that many of us have trouble even imagining. Even in the middle of a global pandemic, it is a deep and enduring pain and fear that deserves acknowledgment and caring, and recognition that we must do better.

We must therefore join with our own expressions of concern and sympathy and outrage. We must work to build an inclusive environment, one that respects and values people from different backgrounds. We must take part in efforts to reduce the deadly discrimination and racism that is an unstaunched wound in our national fabric.

And so I write today to convey on behalf of the Rice community, to all of our community, and most especially to the black members of our community, that we acknowledge the sorrow and the fear and the pain. And that we know as a university and as individuals we must contribute to healing that wound.











As an organization committed to being a voice for the under-represented, SHPE denounces all racism. We wholeheartedly support equality and enthusiastically stand with everyone who is committed to diversity, respect, and justice
Even as this flashpoint in the struggle for racial justice unfolds primarily in the US, ours is a global community. Some struggles are more visible in certain geographies over others, owing to histories of oppression, but we fully recognize that members of our community worldwide are faced with a long list of systemic injustices. The task that lies before us is one of weaving equity, inclusion, and solidarity into each of our scholarly and professional activities, so that "diversity and inclusion" are not add-ons, but deeply integrated into our every practice, whether it involves conference processes, volunteering responsibilities, or global community support mechanisms.
Within SIGCHI, we care deeply about addressing discrimination of all kinds. We are committed to bringing down barriers to equal participation — in our community and the many worlds in which we work, but we must do better. It is not enough to not be racist; we must be anti-racist. With this in mind the SIGCHI Executive Committee (EC) is committing to taking the following steps to confront racism and other forms of discrimination and structural inequity.
    Listen and Reflect: We will identify avenues for our community members to share their experiences, observations, and suggestions around representation and existing practices, so that we can all listen actively, reflect, and learn. We will work together with those whose ability to participate is impacted, to identify ways of amplifying these voices. We will organize dialogues with our members so we all may strengthen our approaches to identifying and addressing prevalent forms of discrimination, racial and otherwise.
    Act Locally: Relying on lessons learned through active listening, we will communicate practices for our community to engage and adopt in personal and professional arenas, including in SIGCHI conferences, events, and publications.
        Represent: We will conduct a systematic review of formal SIGCHI policies and regular practices to examine how best we can respond to bias and bring down barriers that obstruct equal participation for any number of reasons. Specifically, we will take a deeper look at our conferences, volunteering, and community support offerings, to assess how our community may be better represented.
Based on our active listening, the SIGCHI EC will identify recommendations by the end of September, report these to the SIGCHI community in writing, and discuss them in a (virtual) town hall before the end of 2020. We will then begin the work towards integrating these short- and long-term recommendations into SIGCHI policies and practices. Throughout this process, we will be transparent and accountable across the SIGCHI community as we work to achieve our long-term commitments.
We are grateful for the initiative that many in our community have taken in these difficult times, to raise voices against deep injustice and extend support to others affected. Still, we urge our membership — those who are able — to reflect individually and together on the ways in which systemic racism and other systems of domination manifest to threaten the principles of equity and inclusion we espouse as a community. Whether it is in our research activities, our industry jobs, or our classrooms, how might we take on the responsibility of initiating the hard conversations? And of creating the safe spaces in which these conversations may have impact? Our search for justice inevitably ties us together as humans; now is the moment for each one of us to ask — how can we move forward together, in solidarity, to effect deep, systemic change?


SFU Stands in Solidarity Against Racism: Statement from the President
June 02, 2020
Recent incidents of anti-Black violence and discrimination in Canada and the United States provide a disturbing reminder of the prevalence of racism within our societies, and have caused much pain, anger and distress for Black students, faculty and staff.

Despite our commitments to human rights, universities like SFU are not immune to anti-Black and anti-Asian racism, nor to discrimination directed against Indigenous peoples.

Only a few weeks ago, I condemned the anti-Asian racism seen in our communities and spoke of our shared obligation to oppose racial discrimination in all its forms.

The events of recent days add further urgency to this cause. Racism has no place in our society, and we have a responsibility not only to condemn discriminatory behaviour, but also to take action to support inclusion for all.

At SFU, this starts with acknowledging the role we play in perpetuating systemic discrimination, and accepting that we have work to do to ensure that our ideals for a just society are reflected in our own practices, policies and procedures.

To this end, last year we appointed an executive team led by Dr. Joy Johnson to develop an action plan to advance equity, diversity and inclusion across the university. Supported by a pan-university advisory council, the group’s mandate is to eliminate systemic barriers and inequities in access, admissions, recruitment, career development, pay, working and learning conditions, resources, retention and progression.
While that work, including data gathering, is underway, we have much more to learn and much more to do. SFU leadership is committed to growth and change, and I am grateful to many for the part they are playing in building a university community where all feel included.

For students, faculty and staff who experience grief, trauma and/or stress resulting from racism and violence, support is available:

Equity, Diversity and Inclusion help and support: https://www.sfu.ca/edi/support.html
Students: Health & Counselling Services 778-782-4615 and our free, 24/7 mental health support program, mySSP. More information on these and other mental health supports here.
Faculty and all staff: Employee and Family Assistance Program:  Homewood Health 1-800-663-1142
Interfaith Centre: 778-782-3180
 
I have been heartened, as I have said many times in recent weeks, by the energy and commitment that SFU students, faculty and staff have shown to keep our community safe from the threat of COVID-19. Let us now apply that same energy and commitment to ensuring that our community is safe from the threat of racism and discrimination.

It’s all of our responsibility to combat racism, but none more so than those of us who have benefited from white privilege.







The events of the last several weeks have left us with a profound sense of grief, anger, and weariness, but also resolve. We grieve with the family and friends of George Floyd, who was killed by the police in Minneapolis. We grieve with countless other families, including those of Ahmaud Arbery, João Pedro Mattos Pinto, and Breonna Taylor, whose loved ones died senseless and inexplicable deaths at the hands of police officers around the globe.
We are angry at the police officers, their supervisors, and public leaders who allow these actions to continue.
We have grown weary from these reports, coming on the heels of the COVID scourge which has affected us all but especially the very same groups that have been targeted by police officers.
But we are resolved. To prevent the senseless deaths of African Americans at the hands of police and the systematic racism and oppression of people of color, we must transform our anger and grief and resolve to act. We must act at every level.
As leaders of a scientific organization that cares deeply about children, we lean into the research that consistently documents the long-lasting negative effects that discrimination, oppression, racism, and implicit bias have on children. We must discover ways to support families and communities in raising children to become peaceful and tolerant citizens.
We must hold our leaders accountable. Today, leaders at the highest levels are sowing division and racism instead of bringing healing and unity.
We must raise up the voices of unity, accountability, and healing that our nation needs. We need to elevate the voices of youth. Through evidence-based programs, we need to equip them for civic engagement and leadership that will bring about the changes that society needs. We need to stand behind and support youth in creating a better future.
Importantly, we must hold ourselves accountable. As members of the Society for Research in Child Development, we must ask ourselves what we can do in our teaching, our research, and our academic work to bring about the needed changes in our society.
At times like this, we must examine our own beliefs, values, and goals. At SRCD, integrating racial, cultural, and economic diversity into the spheres of developmental science is a central strategic goal. We will continue to promote research that illuminates the lived experiences of children of color, especially in these times of increased oppression and racism. SRCD can be counted on to act based on evidence.
Finally, SRCD builds capacity, as a strategic goal. We will raise up the next generation of researchers, inform policymakers, and equip practitioners in ways that lead to healing the broken-hearted, building bridges across the partisan divides, and advancing developmental science to improve human lives -- #WokeScientist.
We cannot do this alone. We must do this in community and in collaboration. SRCD Commons has been created to grow our sense of community. There are portals for members to communicate with each other for support and information. SRCD is hosting chats, webinars, and virtual meetings with parents of children to offer counsel and support.
Let us commit. Never again.



At the heart of the STARS Computing Corps is a commitment to equity and inclusion in computing. We condemn racism. We will continue to incorporate anti-racist frameworks to guide our work for institutional change. We stand with #BlackLivesMatter






The amount of pain and suffering we are witnessing and feeling is only a snapshot of a broader social reality. We, and everyone before us, have had a role in arriving at where we are today. As such, it is of paramount importance to step up and take a stance. It is our responsibility and a moral imperative to not stand by and simply witness the events around us. We must collectively find our voice and reject racism and inequality. Silence perpetuates, doubt reinforces, and rationalization of incident after incident only compounds the pain so many in our society continue to endure.

While CRA has a long history of celebrating, promoting, and advocating for inclusivity, we cannot be satisfied with continuing the status quo. We will continue to actively stand against discrimination and hatred. We will find new ways to use our voice in Washington to advocate for policies that address the inequities that exist in our field. We will amplify the efforts of our membership organizations wherever we can to help them improve the spaces they occupy and create an environment that is more welcoming, just, and equitable to all. Only together can we begin to right the long history of wrongs that have led us to this place and time.

We start with acknowledging the issues by talking to those around us and explicitly stating that we stand with them when they stand against discrimination and hatred.

We know that racism:

    Is systemic and institutionalized, was intentionally designed, and established well before the foundation of our nation.
    Continues to oppress people of color around the world – denying basic human rights, denying opportunity, and even more tragically denying many of their very lives.
    Is learned behavior that may be unlearned through education, compassion, empathy, and action.
    Drives a wedge between communities, and in doing so limits the enviable quest for a society steeped in respect.
    The privileged benefit from its existence and must be willing to sacrifice to overcome it.
    Lives in our homes, schools, workplaces, parks, churches, stores, amusement parks, government, law enforcement – it lives in us all to varying degrees.

To stand against it, we:

    Acknowledge the existence of racism within our communities and commit to defeating it.
    Call out and reject rationalization of incidents and distortion of information.
    Educate ourselves and those around us to be better equipped to address racism in its many forms.
    Stand up against the status quo by using our voice and agency.
    Commit to systemic change in laws, policies, procedures, etc.
    Dedicate all necessary resources to create lasting change
The Society of Women Engineers is angered and saddened by the recent events in Minneapolis that led to the death of George Floyd.  As an organization we vehemently denounce racism!  Systemic racism faced by those of color in our communities across the United States has become all too familiar.  We must stand together to demand justice and work together to turn our pain into purpose.  Nothing will change if those outside the impacted communities stand by and do nothing.  We must be true allies, standing shoulder to shoulder, asking the tough questions of our civic leaders.

To support the increased participation of women and minorities in engineering, SWE became a founding member of the 50K Coalition.  Since 2015, together with the American Indian Science and Engineering Society  (AISES), the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), we have been working together, using the collective impact model, to increase the numbers of engineering graduates from underrepresented populations to 50,000 by 2025.  Moreover, we have Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with the above-mentioned groups supporting initiatives like joint membership, research and public policy.  This year we are working on additional agreements with NOGLSTP, oSTEM and SASE.

We also recognize that as an organization we have our own work to do. The lack of visible diversity in our leadership is palpable.  For the past several years, SWE leadership has focused on creating a more welcoming and inclusive environment within the Society.  While our efforts may not always achieve the goals we have set forth, we cannot hope to accomplish those goals if we do not actively focus on them.  And we acknowledge that as an organization we still have a lot of work to do. 

As an organization we are committed to our diversity and inclusion principles:

    Developing women in engineering across socio economic strata and occupational focus
    Encouraging interest in and active participation of women and girls of underrepresented groups including (but not limited to) African-American, Asian, Hispanic, Pacific Islanders and Native Americans
    Supporting women and respecting their differences in family status, sexual orientation, sexual identity, age and physical ability
    Work collaboratively with men to confront gender bias and create a more inclusive engineering community

This year our SWE Senate has convened a sub-team to address the lack of diversity within our leadership pipeline.  And that work will continue in the next fiscal year.  We want to be solutions-driven.  Our KPI metric dashboard tracks the diversity demographics of both our membership and our leadership. Details will be shared on swe.org and in the State of SWE conducted every spring. We are holding ourselves accountable and we expect our members and partners to hold us accountable as well.

SWE is a place for women of all backgrounds to come together and share unique perspectives and advance both themselves and the field of engineering.

To our diverse members and every woman of color in STEM fields, your voice is important. We want to reiterate that we are an inclusive organization and we need you in order to increase representation in all levels of our profession and SWE leadership. 

Message to Our Community
Saturday, May 30, 2020, By News StaffShare
To the Syracuse University Community,

We write to you in the midst of tremendous pain, sorrow, anger and concern. From scenes in Minnesota, Georgia, New York and beyond, we have witnessed horrific images reminding us that the sting of racism and systemic injustice is real.

Each act of discrimination and violence carries with it a significant and sustained impact, especially among those targeted. George Floyd is a visceral and painful reminder of the unique ways many of us—students, faculty, staff and alumni—have experienced discrimination and violence. We are clearly in the midst of troubled times, and while civic and law enforcement authorities bear a particular responsibility, we of Syracuse University are now presented with a collective and crucial opportunity.

We recognize the hate and terror that continues to infect each and every corner of our country and world. To face such truth requires compassion. We also witness the tremendous goodness found within our diverse campus community, and we fully believe in our capacity to create and sustain our common good.

The challenges before us might seem impossible to overcome, and we are all far from perfect. Our response must meet the importance of this moment, to build communities where hate and intolerance are not just condemned and rejected, but eliminated. We are now called upon to embody our values and embrace each other. We must choose—through our words, thoughts and deeds—to emerge as a stronger and more just community.

We grieve for the families who have lost loved ones and for those who are suffering. It is simply not enough to try to imagine what others are going through. We must have the respect and resolve to do something about it. When we engage one another with kindness and compassion, we are working to ensure the dignity and worth of all.

While distanced around the world, we in the Orange Community can bind together and act together, for the sake of our world.

With hope,

Kent Syverud, Chancellor and President
Keith A. Alford, Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer
The Rev. Brian Konkol, Dean of Hendricks Chapel

To the Temple community: 

Recently, we have watched the horrific accounts of the deaths of George Floyd in Minnesota, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. Temple joins those who oppose racial oppression and are actively working toward racial equity. Our university was built on the idea that the world is filled with diamonds and these diamonds can be found anywhere and everywhere regardless of race, ethnicity or socio-economic background. As an educational institution, Temple promotes critical thinking and peaceful and purposeful activism. We join with leaders in the Philadelphia region in condemning violence that harms others and destroys property.

Last week, students, faculty and staff were invited to take part in programming and support services designed to help the Temple community process and constructively respond to this difficult season in our shared history. This programming will continue, led by Temple's Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership (IDEAL). We invite you to join with IDEAL for an "Envisioning Racial Justice" webinar to be held Tuesday, June 2. IDEAL regularly shares recommendations of books, articles and other valuable resources, like How To Be An Antiracist by Ibram X. Kendi. Not only is Dr. Kendi a National Book Award-winning and No. 1 New York Times Bestselling Author, he is a Temple Owl, having received his doctorate in African American Studies in 2010. Follow @templediversity for the most up-to-date recommendations and information about additional events.

If you believe you have been the victim of racial discrimination or harassment, please contact the university's EOC office, the focal point of Temple's institutionwide efforts for equal opportunity, equal access and affirmative action. Tuttleman Counseling Services and the Employee Assistance Program also remain available to support you as we face these challenges.

We have every confidence we will navigate this difficult time together.

Richard M. Englert
President

JoAnne A. Epps
Executive Vice President and Provost
Dear TSU Family, Tennessee State University shares the pain of those mourning the loss of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We also share that same anguish, sadness and outrage for the other black men and women across the country who are victims of police brutality because of the color of their skin. Our hearts ache for them and their loved ones, and also for the city that we call home. Nashville has had to endure the seemingly unimaginable this year. The decimation of deadly tornadoes; the physical, mental and economic impact of a pandemic; and now a peaceful rise against injustice that turned violent. While TSU does not condone the violence that erupted during the recent protests in Nashville and nationally, the university sternly and unequivocally opposes injustice and racism. Our institution has a rich history in the civil rights movement, as well as the modern-day movement. Many of our former students helped integrate Nashville's lunch counters, a historic moment in the city's history. Today, our students, from around the country and here in Nashville, are leaders in their communities fighting for change. We must seize this opportunity to continue the dialogue to demand fair and equitable treatment for all Americans, for all Nashvillians. Dear TSU Family, Tennessee State University shares the pain of those mourning the loss of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We also share that same anguish, sadness and outrage for the other black men and women across the country who are victims of police brutality because of the color of their skin. Our hearts ache for them and their loved ones, and also for the city that we call home. Nashville has had to endure the seemingly unimaginable this year. The decimation of deadly tornadoes; the physical, mental and economic impact of a pandemic; and now a peaceful rise against injustice that turned violent. While TSU does not condone the violence that erupted during the recent protests in Nashville and nationally, the university sternly and unequivocally opposes injustice and racism. Our institution has a rich history in the civil rights movement, as well as the modern-day movement. Many of our former students helped integrate Nashville's lunch counters, a historic moment in the city's history. Today, our students, from around the country and here in Nashville, are leaders in their communities fighting for change. We must seize this opportunity to continue the dialogue to demand fair and equitable treatment for all Americans, for all Nashvillians.
A Statement from President Oldham

Published Tuesday Jun 2, 2020
MEDIA RESOURCES
Our nation continues to be marred by injustice, racism, and violence. We observe recent events, that we have seen all too often, that threaten our ability to live with respect for each other.  The unwarranted death of George Floyd should never be forgotten.  I am saddened and struck with the overwhelming belief that we, as a nation, are better than this.

As a university community, we must take a stand and remain committed to our core values of inclusion, respect, kindness, and tolerance toward all.  Our students will be forever shaped by our words, actions, and response to the inexcusable treatment of people of color we have witnessed. 

At Tennessee Tech, we will be a safe place for African American students, faculty and staff. I ask you to hear their voices and pray that all of us will be granted an extra measure of God’s wisdom, grace, tolerance, and patience as we listen to each other and stand beside one another.

RETURN TO NEWS ROOM
The Texas A&M System condemns all racist behaviors, actions, and comments that tear at the moral fabric of our nation. The System is appalled at the deplorable and egregious acts of brutality by some police officers against African Americans. As the nation grieves, the A&M System is also experiencing sorrow and has devoted its platform to stand up against unjust racial disparities.

Based on diversity as a core value of our system, we denounce all forms of violence perpetrated against African Americans. The death of George Floyd, and many others, at the hand of police officers is a despicable and unacceptable outcome. Suffice it to say: IT MUST STOP. All forms of racism, from bias and micro-aggressions to racialized violence, create an undue weight on our faculty, staff, students of color, and administration. As such, there is a direct need to continue to educate and act on our values of inclusion and equity.

The Texas A&M System shall take all necessary steps to ensure that its employees and students are committed to the tenets of human respect and decency. To make a positive impact, we will make a unified commitment to translate our ideals into action for sustainable and proactive change. Equally as important, The Texas A&M System shall remain committed to providing an inclusive environment where all its members can thrive safely.

The A&M System believes all universities under the auspices of the Texas A&M Banner shall speak out against systemic and institutional racism at all levels. Likewise, we urgently call on all Texans and the nation to resist hateful and racist actions and refuse to drink from the bitter cup of divisiveness.

Dr. LaVelle Hendricks, Chair, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Angela Allen, West Texas A&M University
Dr. Carol Bunch Davis, Texas A&M University-Galveston
Larry Davis, Texas A&M University-Central Texas
Dr. Toney Favors, Texas A&M University-Texarkana
Dr. Manuel Flores, Texas A&M University-Kingsville
Elma De Luna-Gonzalez, Prairie View A&M University
Tim Gritten, Texas A&M University-San Antonio
Dr. Peter Haruna, Texas A&M International University
Dr. Lince Tiburcio, Tarleton University
Dr. Sherdeana Owens, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Dr. Christine Stanley, Texas A&M University
Dr. Julia Ballenger, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Joyce Miller, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Minita Ramirez, Texas A&M International University
Carl Greig, Texas A&M University-Texarkana
Dr. Corinne Valadez, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Dr. Jennifer Schroeder, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Brenda Moore, Texas A&M University-Commerce


Dear Texas Tech University family,
We have all been affected and saddened by the tragic and violent events in Minneapolis,
Minnesota. The events have brought to mind difficult and complex questions about racism
and justice. For some of our fellow students, faculty, and employees, what happened to
George Floyd feels like it could happen to them too.
That requires all of us to have an extra measure of compassion and understanding as we
move forward. Take time to listen to one another, to have the hard conversations and
uncomfortable exchanges. It is precisely those dialogues that strengthen the sense of
community that is an essential part of our university.
I want to reaffirm Texas Tech's unwavering commitment to a welcoming environment for all.
Many ethnicities are proudly represented on this campus, and our students are drawn from all
50 states and more than one hundred countries. That is a great strength, but it also means that
all of us—the administration, faculty, employees, and students alike—must treat every
person in this community with the respect and compassion they deserve. That is our bedrock
standard, and no matter our background, our bond as Red Raiders unifies us in a common
cause and in our responsibility to one another.
This past spring, the University held a series of dialogues about race relations on campus,
and that work has never felt more urgent. We intend to continue these efforts in the year
ahead and I also want to call attention to the many resources that are here for students,
faculty, staff, and administrators in the meantime. We have first-rate health and counseling
services to support you and additional educational resources and programs are provided
through the Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, and the Center for Campus Life. We
will work with colleagues across the Texas Tech University System, the Athletics
Department, the Texas Tech Police Department, as well as with our elected officials and
civic leaders here in Lubbock, to ensure your safety and well-being.
We are all Red Raiders, and we are all dedicated to a University that celebrates diversity and
draws strength from it. Following the closures of this spring, we aim to return to campus as
unified as ever. That's the Texas Tech way. And it reflects our most deeply held values of
respect, inclusion, compassion, and mutual concern.
We look forward to being able to resume our campus life, and I wish all of you the best in the
weeks and months to come.
Sincerely,
Lawrence Schovanec
President
Texas Tech University


TTIC's Mission Statement says: "TTIC is committed to the values of human freedom, dignity, prosperity, and diversity." President Turk confirmed in an internal mail to the TTIC community on Tuesday that the Institute is firmly committed to those values, and supports those demanding an end to intolerance, discrimination, marginalization, and bigotry. Racism and discrimination have devastating effects on society. Silence plays a key role in upholding and supporting narratives that contribute to systems of oppression and injustice.

The recent killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery, along with too many others, have caused profound new grief and adversely affect our lives and the lives of those we care about in significant ways. We must individually and collectively reflect on the lives lost unnecessarily, and the systemic problems and challenges we all face as a society. The unnecessary race-based killings and violence must end.
Community Message on Racial Injustice
Sunday, May, 31st, 2020 President's Desk Speeches and Messages

May 31, 2020

Dear members of the Tufts University community,

This spring has been a difficult one for our entire community, as all of our lives have taken turns that were inconceivable just months ago. But it is important to recognize that we have not all been challenged in the same ways. The coronavirus pandemic, with its disproportionate impact on the health and economic status of communities of color, has revealed, once again, the deep disparities that continue to exist in our nation. And the recent acts of violence against Black people demonstrate, once again, the racism and injustice that persist in our society.

I recognize that I have the privilege of being able to go for a jog or put on a mask without fearing that my skin color will make me a target. Not all members of our society—and our Tufts community—enjoy such privilege. To our Black students, faculty, staff and alumni, please know that I stand with you in demanding these injustices stop.

As a community, we want to come together, share our pain, and find a way to be a part of the solution. But we are currently separated around the world. I hope we can use our distance as a strength, rather than a barrier. Let’s work to improve the communities in which we find ourselves today and hope that by our actions, we can begin to knit this nation together.

I hope you will stay safe and support one another during these difficult times.

Best wishes,

Tony Monaco

A MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT LILY D. McNAIR "Dear Students, Alumni, Colleagues and Friends:


This past week, we have all experienced a range of emotions after viewing the horrific and senseless murder of George Floyd at the hands of law enforcement officials. As a mother, wife and president of Tuskegee University with more than 2,800 students – of which 35% are male – I am concerned about your safety and futures. While Black males have been the most obvious targets of police brutality and mistreatment, I am equally distressed about the fate of Black women who have increasingly suffered from similar miscarriages of justice.


I have a particularly heightened sense of concern for your safety and general well-being during these trying times. After watching the weekend protests occurring in major cities in the country, my heart sank again as I saw the video of two students from our sister institutions of Morehouse College and Spelman College who were forcibly removed from their vehicle and tasered by Atlanta police without obvious provocation. The death of George Floyd and these subsequent protests have exposed the troubling state of our country on many fronts – including racial disparities, social injustices, and economic inequalities that disproportionately affect the poor and people of color. Although many of you may choose to participate in these protests, I ask that you be mindful of the notable cause of peaceful protests. 


You are an important part of my family, so I ask that you stay safe. We will be working with student leaders and others over the coming days and weeks to engage in action-oriented solutions focused on anti-racism, peace, equality, and social justice reform. Join the Division of Student Affairs on Thursday, June 4, at 8:00 p.m. central time on Zoom for ""Know Peace, Know Justice: A Safety and Mental Health Discussion."" The Zoom link will be sent separately and posted on social media.


Stay safe. Stay focused. Know that we will get through this together.


Sincerely,
 
Lily D. McNair, Ph.D.
President"

Minneapolis, Louisville, Atlanta
Published May 30, 2020

Dear university community,

At the University at Buffalo, we believe that intolerance, hatred and institutional racism have no place in our community or our nation. That is precisely why our university—in principle and in practice—has deliberately cultivated a diverse, inclusive community grounded in respect for each other’s humanity.
 
As a university community, we are deeply saddened by the lives senselessly taken in Minneapolis, Atlanta and Louisville. As we watch neighborhoods and cities consumed by destruction and chaos, we mourn peacefully but not passively.
 
Instead, with unwavering compassion, let us lift our voices together and, as one, pledge that all people—regardless of race or gender—be afforded a life of liberty, equality, opportunity and dignity.

Sincerely,
 
Satish K. Tripathi
President


Important Message from UAB Leaders
by Tyler Greer
June 01, 2020 Print Email
UAB Community,

Integrity, respect, accountability, diversity and inclusiveness are shared values of our institution and are at the core of what it means to be a UAB Blazer. Everybody counts every day. The students, faculty and staff who comprise our richly diverse and inclusive campus — and take pride in living these values — are hurting, along with our community and country.

The senseless murder of George Floyd — fueled by racism and hate — is tragic, unacceptable and not isolated. The recent abhorrent killings of Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery show a disturbing pattern and are proof that an intentional focus on the values we espouse as members of the UAB community are needed now. These incidents have continued to surface as we navigate the COVID-19 pandemic, which has highlighted the systemic health disparities in African American and Latinx communities consistently addressed by leadership in our School of Medicine, as well as uneven enforcement of social distancing executive orders and anti-Asian bias. 

Nothing we can say can heal the deep pain and fear in our community. But we can recognize injustice and actively and purposefully live for integrity, respect, accountability, diversity and inclusiveness every day. Do not let your concern subside. Be a difference for positive change.

We are proud of and affirm our student government association's condemnation of these tragedies and its message encouraging fellow students to take actions beyond words with "donations, signing petitions, safely attending protests, and exercising your civic duties."

There are many opportunities to get involved. We encourage all of our students, faculty and staff to learn more about and seek the resources and programming offered by UAB's Student Multicultural and Diversity Programs and Office of Diversity Equity and Inclusion. 

Self-care is important in times like these. If you need them, utilize the free counseling services UAB offers through Student Counseling Servicesand the Employee Assistance Counseling Center.

Please take care of yourself and each other.

Sincerely,

Ray L. Watts, President

Pam Benoit, Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost

Allen Bolton, Senior Vice President for Finance and Administration

Selwyn Vickers, Senior Vice President for Medicine and Dean, School of Medicine

Jim Bakken, Interim Chief Communications Officer

Shannon Blanton, Dean, Honors College

Tom Brannan, Vice President for Advancement

Jennifer Breland, President, Staff Council

Chris Brown, Vice President for Research

Andrew Butler, Dean, School of Health Professions

Curt Carver, Vice President for Information Technology/Chief Information Officer

Autumn Cypres, Dean, School of Education

Paulette Dilworth, Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Paul Erwin, Dean, School of Public Health

Will Ferniany, CEO, UAB Health System

Kasia Gonnerman, Dean, Libraries

Doreen Harper, Dean, School of Nursing

Ria Hearld, Chair, Faculty Senate

Mark Ingram, Director of Athletics

Eric Jack, Dean, School of Business

Alesia Jones, Chief Human Resources Officer

John Jones, Vice President for Student Affairs 

Lori McMahon, Dean, Graduate School

Kelly Nichols, Dean, School of Optometry

Kathy Nugent, Executive Director, Harbert Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship

Rosie O'Beirne, Interim Associate Vice President for Digital Strategy and Marketing

Robert Palazzo, Dean, College of Arts and Sciences

Russell Taichman, Dean, School of Dentistry

Tim Wick, Interim Dean, School of Engineering 

UA Little Rock Stands with Students, Faculty, and Staff
JUNE 2, 2020

Trojan Family,

This is a difficult time for our country as we struggle with the harmful effects of racism. We grieve with the families of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and so many others. I want you to know that UA Little Rock stands against racism and hate and stands with those who support social justice and equality.

As an institution, we are not immune to issues of inequity and intolerance. Particularly with regard to issues of race and ethnicity, we have not done enough. While we still have much room for improvement, we are committed to doing the work that is required of us to ensure we provide members of our campus community with the space and support to operate authentically in their identity, free from harassment and disrespect.

I know there are members of our campus community, especially those who identify as African American, who are in great pain at this time as you struggle to process this latest tragedy, while navigating the enduring systems of discrimination that you face in your day-to-day life. We want you to know that you have a place at UA Little Rock, and it is important that we continue to work together to ensure the safety and well-being of every member of our campus community. We are here for you and we care for you. You matter.

I am committed to making sure that every member of our campus community is valued, respected, and celebrated–we are stronger together.

Christina S. Drale
Chancellor


Together against Racism and Injustice
June 1, 2020

Dear UBC community:

Recent anti-Black and anti-Asian violence in communities across North America has focused our attention on the deeply rooted racism in Canada and globally.  UBC itself is not immune to racism and injustice.

As a university, we need to make it crystal clear that racism and bias have no place in our community and that we have zero tolerance for it.

On behalf of the University, I condemn and denounce all incidents of anti-Black and anti-Asian racism and the continued racism and oppression that is directed at Indigenous communities. We must work together to dismantle the tools of oppression and white supremacy that remain prevalent and entrenched in our everyday systems.  It is my hope that at least here at UBC, we can work to model a different kind of community – one where we embrace difference and work to build each other up while enacting values of dignity, mutual respect, and justice.

Deeply connected to the wider region, and benefiting from the privilege of being on unceded land, UBC must be responsive to the needs of our wider community and committed to advancing the understanding of equity, diversity, and inclusion. As a public sector institution, we have an obligation and commitment towards the public good; and as a place of learning and engagement, we are uniquely positioned to generate and mobilize knowledge that can transform systems of oppression and support emerging leaders that can help shape not only our campus, but workplaces and communities beyond our campuses. As such we will be organizing a series of public engagements focused on anti-racism.

As the President of UBC, I reaffirm our institutional commitment to inclusion and call for the acceleration and intensification of efforts to build a more inclusive campus community.  Over the coming weeks, I will

Ensure adequate resources to implement the goals and actions of the Inclusion Action Plan.
Meet with the Black Caucus and the Asian Canadian Community Engagement Group.
Support the diversification of the professoriate through the allocation of President’s Excellence Chairs to Black and Indigenous faculty members.
Support identity-based spaces and organizations and ensure that they continue to receive the funding they need.
Fulfill commitments within the Inclusion Action Plan for the recruitment, retention and support of Black students, staff, and faculty.
Ensure that all our public safety officers and other authority figures are adequately trained to eliminate any unconscious or implicit bias.
Endeavour to diversify our community at every level through defined programs.
As recommended by the External review of the Equity & Inclusion Office, establish a dotted line reporting relationship to the Associate Vice President, Equity & Inclusion.
I will also be working closely with members of our administration, the Associate Vice President, Equity & Inclusion, and relevant committees and groups to assess and look at ways that we can enhance our efforts to build a more inclusive campus. We will host a  virtual town hall to elevate voices that are traditionally silenced in our institution and to monitor progress.

At UBC, diversity is our strength – inclusion of different perspectives and experiences is critical to the wellbeing of our community and the individual and collective pursuit of excellence. We can play a role against hatred, oppression, violence and injustice and find a way to support and elevate those who have been traditionally, systemically, and historically marginalized.

I encourage you to think about the role you can play in fighting racism and with that I urge you to read this post on solidarity and anti-racist action from our colleagues at the Equity & Inclusion Office.

If you are in need of support with respect to your wellbeing, please contact UBC Counselling Services or EFAP, explore some ways for self-care, and if you feel that you have faced discrimination while working or studying at UBC, please contact our human rights team. This post on sustainable self-care may also be useful.

On a personal note, I say to racialized students and colleagues at UBC: this is not the first time in history that you have experienced heightened stigmatization and racism. You are strong and resilient and will thrive in the face of this as you have done throughout history. Please don’t let racism cloud your spirit. Go and be the brilliant minds and compassionate hearts that you are, and continue to shine at UBC. You belong here.

If you think there is more UBC can do, I want to hear from you at presidents.office@ubc.ca.

Santa J. Ono
President and Vice-Chancellor

Letter to the UBC Community

A message from campus leaders: Standing together
MAY 29, 2020


EmailPrint
Chancellor Carol Christ and Oscar Dubón, Jr., vice chancellor for equity and inclusion, sent the following message to the campus community on Friday:

While we all profoundly feel the suffering and loss related to COVID-19—suffering and loss visited disproportionately on those who are Black, indigenous, people of color, and poor—we are appalled by the racist killings of recent weeks. We write to express our outrage; we stand in steadfast solidarity with our Black community; and we offer heartfelt condolences to the loved ones of the victims of the racially-motivated violence that is taking place in various communities across America. Unchecked violence at the hands of police and civilians requires our – and all of society's – urgent attention.

As a campus community, we stand with the family of Ahmaud Arbery, who was murdered while jogging in Georgia by two white men. We stand with Christian Cooper, who was the victim of a woman's attempt to use the police as a weapon against him while he pursued his passion for birdwatching in New York's Central Park. We stand with the loved ones of Breonna Taylor, an essential worker during this pandemic who was killed in her home by police. We stand against the senseless killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis by a police officer who knelt on his neck, while three others watched and assisted, as Mr. Floyd choked out the same final words of another slain Black man, Eric Garner: "I can't breathe."

Let us say their names, acknowledge their humanity, and commit to doing what we can to build a more just society.

Let us also acknowledge that while these names and incidents made their way into the national news and discourse, they are not by any means isolated, nor is the racism that underlies them.

According to Rutgers University Sociologist Frank Edwards, one out of every 1,000 Black men in America will be killed by a police officer. This makes them two and half times more likely than white men to die during encounters with officers.

Less noticed by the mainstream media but equally important to elevate are Black women, gender non-conforming and trans people who have been murdered in recent weeks and months.

We must call out and hold accountable our broken structures, build bridges that will lead to mutual understanding and respect across differences, and work to create a future in which we can all thrive, especially in these most challenging times. This work must happen across the nation – and it must happen on a local level as well.

We acknowledge the grief, anger, sadness, helplessness, and outrage that these killings create in our community. Let us channel those feelings toward a commitment to each others' wellness. If you would like support, please contact UC Berkeley Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). Counselors are available for phone and video counseling appointments. There are also new online self-help tools. Visit the CAPS website, call Counseling and Psychological Services at (510) 642-9494, or, when the Tang Center is closed, call the after-hours counseling line (855) 817-5667. CAPS employs mental health professionals trained to provide support to individuals from a wide array of identities, including traditionally marginalized or disenfranchised groups.

In addition, Be Well at Work – Employee Assistance provides free confidential counseling and referrals for our faculty, staff, visiting scholars, and postdocs. To schedule an appointment with an Employee Assistance counselor, please contact (510) 643-7754 or email employeeassistance@berkeley.edu.

Finally, please be aware of the following resources:

Student Organizations: Our campus has numerous and diverse student organizations that students may wish to get involved in. You can explore at callink.berkeley.edu.
Centers for Educational Justice & Community Engagement: These centers provide space, programs, and services for Berkeley's diverse student communities. Learn more at ejce.berkeley.edu/mcc or (510) 642-6528.
Reporting: For information and support on reporting hate crimes or hate-motivated acts, visit stophate.berkeley.edu.
As a campus community, we must uphold a standard of care and respect in both words and actions that lives up to our values and principles of community. This is a time for greater self-examination of society's institutions and structures—including our university—and a bold commitment to healthier national and campus cultures. In this way, we honor lives lost or forever changed through acts of hate and violence by bringing about change for justice and belonging.
To the UC Davis Community:

"I can't breathe." These were the last words uttered by Eric Garner as he was being murdered on Staten Island in 2014.

"I can't breathe."These were among the last words spoken by George Floyd as he suffered the same fate under hauntingly similar circumstances in Minneapolis on Monday evening.

In 2014, I tried to explain the Garner incident to my daughters. Yesterday, I tried to explain the Floyd incident to myself. In both cases, I fell short. Murder captured on video defies explanation.

Needless to say, these tragedies hit my family and me hard. I know it's touched a deep nerve with many of you as well. You have reached out to express your support, concern, sadness and anger, and I appreciate it. To be honest, it's been difficult for me to know how to address this because it is so personal.

I lived in Georgia for nearly 30 years, where Ahmaud Arbery was hunted and killed. George Floyd could have been any African American man, including me. Beyond the constant barrage of fear of the negative consequences of birding while black, shopping while black, cooking out while black, exercising while black — it is just exhausting. And I'm tired.

I can't claim to speak for all African Americans or all people of color. And to ask me or others like me to do so is a burden others don't have to carry. So I have thought a lot about how America got here, so long ago, and why we haven't made as much progress as we often claim.

The events of this week also cause me to believe even more strongly, if that's possible, in building an inclusive environment that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. I remain committed to that and hope you will do what you can to eliminate racism, sexism, and other negative influences on our progression as a nation.

Perhaps higher education can be that positive influence on lives beyond an education. Perhaps here we can create a way forward. Perhaps here we can breathe.

Sincerely,

Gary S. May
Chancellor

Category
Messages and Announcements
Tags
Chancellor's Messages
Offices of the Chancellor and Provost
Fifth Floor, Mrak Hall
University of California, Davis
One Shields Avenue
Davis, CA 95616

(530) 752-2065

Categories
Messages and Announcements
Speeches
Related Articles
Kayton Carter, Renetta Garrison Tull and Chancellor May stand together in a moment of silence. 
Checking In With Chancellor May: Beyond the Moment
June 05, 2020
Provost Hexter standing outside looking at camera
A Message to Our Students as We Near the Close of Spring 2020
June 04, 2020
Chancellor May sitting at desk writing a letter
Checking In With Chancellor May: A Way Forward
May 29, 2020
Chancellor Gary May seriously and thoughtfully looking to the side
Checking In With Chancellor May: Reflection
May 22, 2020
Chancellor May sitting at desk writing a letter
Coronavirus Update for Incoming Fall 2020 Students
May 21, 2020

In Support of the African American Community
May 31, 2020
Dear UCI Community:

We watched with shock and horror the video of a white policeman callously, even casually, kneeling on the neck of an unarmed and unresisting black man until that man was dead, while other policemen stood by and watched.  This brutal and racist act was like something out of Mississippi during Jim Crow, out of the past we don't acknowledge enough, but it wasn't.  It is our reality, in the here and now, a reality that reflects the harsh, brutal, terrible, ongoing legacy of America's original sin.

We empathize with the pain, sadness, and anger that many Black students, employees, and alumni understandably are feeling.  Please reach out to any of us if we can help you during this extraordinary time.

The unrest that is roiling our country, from coast to coast, is a profoundly distressing statement of the crisis of our society.  At the core of this crisis is the reality of anti-Black racism in the United States.  The death of George Floyd was not isolated.  Breonna Taylor, a first responder, died in a hail of gunfire in her Louisville home in March.  Tony McDade, a Black trans-masculine person, was shot and killed by Tallahassee police.  Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia was hunted down and murdered by vigilantes.  His story is all too familiar.  Unarmed, Trayvon Martin was killed by George Zimmerman in 2012.  Their crime: jogging and walking while Black.  This sickening and outrageous roll call goes on and on.

The response to these and other unjustified deaths reflects a profound and justified sense of grievance and frustration with policing and our justice system.  The unrest that we are witnessing is no less about the persistence of systematic oppression and exclusion in educational opportunity, participation in the economy, access to health care, and all areas of social life essential to social justice and human well being.   

As Vice Chancellor Haynes noted in his message last Thursday, the experience of anti-Blackness belies the notion that "We are all in this together." 

But if we are to survive, as a nation, as a society, we must be in this together.  

Here at UCI, an institution devoted to the betterment of the world, our Inclusive Excellence Action Plan focuses on promoting a campus culture defined by community, thriving, and wellness.  That is not enough.  We can and must do more. All of us, collectively, must confront the distinctive, fundamental reality of anti-Blackness. We must also look forward and explore what we can do—in our practices, our teaching, our research, our community engagement, our interpersonal interactions—to mitigate the pervasive and systemic injustices and brutalities of anti-Blackness.

To this end, Vice Chancellor Haynes will develop and launch by fall 2020 a wide-ranging initiative.  With input from campus stakeholders and community, this initiative will ensure that our campus community is educated about anti-Blackness, takes steps to dismantle anti-Black sentiment, enhances scholarly expertise and research, promotes the intellectual and cultural capital of Black communities, transforms the professoriate and knowledge workforce of the future, and identifies other ways we can rise to the serious challenges confronting all of us.   

We stand in unity with the African-American community to deepen everyone's understanding so that we make this world a better place, for today and for future generations.  To do this work we must be in this together.

Let there be light for us all,

Chancellor Howard Gillman
Interim Provost Hal Stern
Vice Chancellor, Student Affairs Willie Banks
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Douglas Haynes
UCI Chief of Police Liz Griffin
The Pain Behind the Protests
Campus Update
To the Campus Community:

Across the country, people are horrified by the recent killings of three African Americans: Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd. We share that outrage. And these are only a few of the most recent deaths to cause particular anguish amongst those who for too long have endured cruelty after cruelty, indignity after indignity.

What stood out about the killing of George Floyd — more than its senselessness, more than its brutality – was its casualness. What was so chilling was the relaxed demeanor of a police officer — sworn to protect and to serve — his hands calmly in his pockets, kneeling on the neck of a fellow human being, indifferent to his cries of pain and the fear for his life. Equally harrowing was his three fellow officers who stood there and did not recognize the need to intervene in a life or death situation. All these behaviors reflected the utter dehumanization of Black life.

We must never let that indifference to human suffering become our own. We must never deaden our hearts to the pain of others. Our fundamental values demand that we care.

At UCLA, we believe deeply that equity, respect and justice are central to the character of our institution, to the health of our democracy and to the well-being of our world. Still, we recognize that UCLA also can and must do better. As campus leaders, we recommit ourselves to ensuring that our policies and actions value the lives, safety and dignity of every Bruin.

We have begun the process of coordinating virtual reflection spaces for departments and units, where we can come together to try and process what has happened. With assistance from the Office for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion and the university’s Equity Advisors, we are also trying to share ways we can honestly and humbly acknowledge the pain and search for solutions. This includes working with student government leaders to understand and address the needs of our students. Our efforts will be updated on the Resources for Racial Trauma web page as we push forward to deeper understanding and genuine change.

We conclude by stating unequivocally that Black lives DO matter. They matter at UCLA. They matter in Minnesota. They matter everywhere.

In solidarity,
Gene D. Block
Chancellor
Emily A. Carter
Executive Vice Chancellor and
Provost
Michael Meranze
Chair, Academic Senate
Michael J. Beck
Administrative Vice Chancellor
Gregg Goldman
Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer
Monroe Gorden, Jr.
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Jerry Kang
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity
and Inclusion
Michael S. Levine
Vice Chancellor for Academic Personnel
John Mazziotta
Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences
CEO, UCLA Health

Louise C. Nelson
Vice Chancellor for Legal Affairs
Mary Osako
Vice Chancellor for Strategic Communications

Rhea Turteltaub
Vice Chancellor for External Affairs
Roger Wakimoto
Vice Chancellor for Research
Yolanda J. Gorman
Senior Advisor to the Chancellor and Chief of Staff

Dan Guerrero
The Alice and Nahum Lainer Family Director of Athletics
Antonio E. Bernardo
Dean, Anderson School of
Management
Ronald S. Brookmeyer
Dean, Fielding School of Public Health
Eric Bullard
Dean, Continuing Education and UCLA Extension

Miguel A. García-Garibay
Dean, Division of Physical Sciences
Robin L. Garrell
Vice Provost, Graduate Education
Dean, Graduate Division

Darnell M. Hunt
Dean, Division of Social Sciences
Brian Kite
Interim Dean, School of Theater, Film and Television

Paul H. Krebsbach
Dean, School of Dentistry
Kelsey Martin
Dean, David Geffen School of Medicine
Jennifer L. Mnookin
Dean, School of Law
Jayathi Y. Murthy
Dean, Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science

Linda Sarna
Dean, School of Nursing
Gary M. Segura
Dean, Luskin School of Public Affairs
David Schaberg
Dean, Division of Humanities
Victoria Sork
Dean, Division of Life Sciences

Brett Steele
Dean, School of the Arts and Architecture
Eileen Strempel
Dean, The Herb Alpert School of
Music
Marcelo Suárez-Orozco
Dean, Graduate School of Education & Information Studies

Pat Turner
Senior Dean, College
Dean and Vice Provost, Undergraduate Education

Tony Lee
Chief of UCLA Police Department
Naomi Riley
President, Undergraduate Students Association
Jean Paul Santos
President, Graduate Students Association
 
UC Riverside Mourns the Death of George Floyd
KIM A. WILCOX
Chancellor
May 29, 2020
Dear Campus Community,

In March and early April, elected leaders held daily press conferences in which they reported the number of ventilators they had secured. In hospitals and labs, physicians, scientists, and device manufacturers looked for new ways to help patients suffering from COVID-19 breathe. Both federal and state entities went to great expense to ensure that those who needed it had air.

Then, this week, videos showed a police officer with his knee pushing into the neck of an African American man named George Floyd, while two others held his legs as he took his last breath. Before he died, Floyd pleaded, "I can't breathe," to the men who took his life. 

There is no denying that air is sought for some and stolen from others. 

The death of George Floyd follows the death of Ahmaud Arbery, an unarmed African American man chased down and shot by white men while jogging near his home in Georgia. 

We represent an institution committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion. To those of you who too well understand the fear of being arrested, assaulted or killed because of the color of your skin – from ongoing Anti-Black racism to COVID-19 Anti-Asian upsurges, we want you to know we are with you and grateful that you are a part of our community. We will continue to foster an environment that not only values equality but fights inequity where we see it.

Our country has buried too many in recent months. We mourn all of these lost lives but today grieve most deeply a loss that didn't have to be and reaffirm our commitment to work toward a better tomorrow. 
Statement on George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery
Today our hearts are burdened, our minds are searching, and our spirits are processing a mix of disbelief, anger and sadness. The news of George Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on Monday night and the disturbing video of his final moments has shocked the world. Taken in context with the recent killings of Breonna Taylor (by police in her own home) and Ahmaud Arbery (by neighbors while jogging), our black community members, in particular, are outraged, traumatized, fearful and in profound pain.

Grief and concern in their purest forms have been made even more poignant during this time of great uncertainty due to the global public health crisis. The coronavirus pandemic has magnified the long history of racism in our country, ongoing inequity, and the status quo of the dehumanization of our fellow Black Americans.

How do we react? What do we do? Where do we start?
We begin by extending our sincere, heartfelt sympathies to the loved ones of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We join in mourning their unspeakably tragic and untimely deaths. We stand in solidarity with our black family, friends and neighbors in their time of need and help them shoulder their everyday lives so that they have the necessary time to mourn and process the deeper meanings of these losses. And most importantly, no matter how painful, difficult or uncomfortable, we must review these events with full transparency and recognize there are systemic problems in our society that desperately need our attention, time and energy to remedy.

We must recognize the violation of human rights and the devastating effects that systemic racism, oppression and violence have on the safety, security and health of communities of color. We cannot let these acts be normalized or allow ourselves to become numb to them. The University of California San Diego unequivocally condemns the disproportionate use of excessive force by some police in communities of color.

We also denounce vigilante acts that terrorize members of the community based upon race, ethnicity, country of origin, religion, disability, gender, gender identity, or sexual orientation. We as a community must not and will not tolerate acts of hate, bias or violence. We are committed to doing what can be done within our institution to make sure everyone feels that they belong and that they matter. This should be our commitment to ourselves and to each other.

Where do we go from here?
In the coming weeks, our Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion has planned community conversations to provide spaces for healing and identifying ways to be agents of change in this moment. Details are forthcoming and will be communicated via campus notice.

We know that statements such as these do not resolve the intractable issues we face as a country. We know it does not even begin to heal the hurt and trauma caused by structural and systemic racism and discrimination. Collectively, let us continue to work together for a more just, equitable and humane society in our service, activism, pedagogy, and community and collaborative efforts.

Pradeep K. Khosla
Chancellor

Elizabeth H. Simmons
Executive Vice Chancellor

Maripat Corr
Chair, San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

Steven Constable
Vice Chair, San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

David A. Brenner
Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences

Margaret S. Leinen
Vice Chancellor for Marine Sciences

Sandra A. Brown
Vice Chancellor for Research

Gary C. Matthews
Vice Chancellor for Resource Management and Planning

Pierre Ouillet
Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer

Becky R. Petitt
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion

Alysson Satterlund
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Judy Bruner
Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer

Anne L. Buckley
Chief Communications and Marketing Officer

Vince Kellen
Chief Information Officer

Patty Maysent
Chief Executive Officer for UC San Diego Health

Daniel W. Park
Chief Campus Counsel

Nancy Resnick
Chief Human Resource Officer

David S. Rose
Chief of Police

Michael Trigilio
Chair of the Committee on Diversity and Equity
San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

SHARE
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Email
Print


Statement on George Floyd
To: UC Santa Cruz Community

From: Chancellor Cynthia Larive

May 29, 2020

SHARE THIS STORY:TwitterFacebookLinkedInReddit
Dear Campus Community,

I write today to share our pain, sadness, and anger for the murder of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota. In the midst of this unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic, the all too common violence and threat of violence perpetrated against Black people and other communities of color in our country escalates. George Floyd’s death is part of an appalling history of racist harassment, assault, and murder that stretches back far too long in the life of our nation. There are too many victims whose experiences never made headlines and whose names will never become public. I know that grief weighs heavily on many members of our community. I struggle with my own sense of heartbreak.

Our university struggles with and works within the same context of white supremacist systems, structures, and conditions that make life more dangerous and precarious for people of color. Universities, like our country, have taken too long to translate our ideals into action or sustainable change. Transforming the university takes work, and we are still engaged in that work. The pace of change is frustratingly slow and the instruments of change are imperfect. The difficulties of this past year for our community highlight how far we have to go. 

I encourage you to reach out to campus services for support. In addition to support services offered by staff in our colleges and resource centers, Counseling and Psychological Services provides assistance for students. For employees, the Employee Assistance Program can provide counseling and support.

Sincerely,

Cindy

Our community and events in Minneapolis and Chicago
 
To: Members of the University Community
From: Ka Yee C. Lee, Provost
Subject: Our community and events in Minneapolis and Chicago
Date: May 30, 2020
 
Our nation is confronting painful issues in the wake of the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis and a number of other racially motivated incidents. These recent examples represent a small fraction of the bias and violence that occurs across the U.S. and around the world each day. The deep alarm expressed by people throughout the country, including in our home of Chicago, reflects many decades of grief and anguish over the intractable scourge of racism against minority communities, particularly African Americans.
 
I know that many of you are feeling sadness, pain, and anger over these recent events. In these already difficult times, this is an occasion for solidarity and for a strengthened commitment to care for each other and work to improve our community, our city and, our nation. Even though most of us are separated by distance as this quarter comes to a close, our shared values bind us together to seek truth, value diversity, and strive for justice.
 
Diversity and inclusion are core values of our institution. We value every member of our campus community, and each of us should show respect for one another. The vitality of the South Side is fundamentally linked with that of the University, and we esteem the deep relationships and partnerships that the residents of the South Side and members of the University community have built together. Fostering a sense of trust, inclusion, belonging and safety for our faculty, other academic appointees, staff, and students is always a priority, and especially so during this time. In the coming days, there will be more information about opportunities for our community to come together in dialogue about these issues.
 
We also encourage you to access the many valuable University resources that may be helpful to you right now:
 
The Center for Identity + Inclusion engages students and members of our University community from all backgrounds to ensure personal, academic, and professional growth, and success.
The Center for the Study of Race, Politics, and Culture offers a wide array of programming, including a Zoom series focused on the racial disparities of COVID-19.
The Pozen Center for Human Rights offers regular programming about global human rights.
Spiritual Life serves as a destination for religious and spiritual needs.
UChicago Student Wellness offers counseling services and other support for students impacted by these and other events.
The Urban Health Initiative runs inclusive community grants and organizes a variety of community programs and services.
The Diversity & Inclusion website features a listing of related events happening across campus.
 
Thank you for the continuing work of people across our University to build a strong, supportive, and inclusive community.
 
 
Keywords: 
Announcements
Diversity and Inclusion
It is hard not to be haunted by the brutal reality that Dr. King’s words are needed as much in 2020 as they were in 1967. America has failed to hear the profound ways we are, repeatedly, failing each other. And not only in small, I-will-do-better-next-time ways. But in the biggest way imaginable—by failing to fight for the basic humanity of our neighbor. Our hearts ache for the family and friends of George Floyd, as they continue to do so for the loved ones of Samuel DuBose. We must agree destruction of our neighborhoods is not the answer. Let us instead heed the clarion call from President Obama to "work together to create a ‘new normal’ in which the legacy of bigotry and unequal treatment no longer infects our institutions or our hearts."
From the Chancellor - Standing against hate and violence
May 29, 2020

As I see national news stories about the death of George Floyd and other recent acts of racism, I reflect on the conversations I had earlier this year with our students about these very issues. 

Even though a global pandemic is keeping us apart from each other, I share in your pain, anger and sadness. When we see acts of racism, it affects us deeply and takes a physical, mental and emotional toll. We must reach out and support each other as we process what has happened. For me, I will not lose hope. I take heart in how our students have engaged with us over the last academic year. We had honest conversations in a genuine effort to enhance campus climate together and build a more welcoming, safe and inclusive community for all.

These intolerable injustices, whether they happen in Minnesota, New York or here in Colorado, strike at the core of everything we believe. Let me be clear: I am committed to diversity and inclusion of everyone on our campus. 

We stand in solidarity with all members of our campus community, including our police department and the city of Boulder in encouraging and supporting peaceful demonstrations.

As a campus community, it is incumbent on us to encourage civil discourse that lifts us all from this darkness. Universities can be, and must be, at the heart of social change. As a campus, we continuously work to cultivate a diverse, inclusive and welcoming community. We best illustrate this through our moral actions when we see injustice, close to home or far away.

Please take care of yourselves, each other and use our campus support resources, which continue to be available during these difficult times. 
 

Phil DiStefano,
CU Boulder Chancellor
Dear UConn Community,

Recent events have called national attention yet again to the destructive power of prejudice and racism. The death of George Floyd in police custody in Minneapolis serves as our most recent example. We are disgusted by the images we have seen capturing the unconscionable acts that caused his death. Demonstrations across the country make clear that communities are hurting and frustrated by repeated acts of violence against their neighbors, friends, and families. These events have saddened and angered so many on a deeply personal level, with the burden of fear for one's own and their family's safety placed squarely upon African-Americans.

Unfortunately, this is just one of many examples of the pain caused by systemic injustices that are present every day. Take, for example, the disproportionate rates of death by COVID-19 among African-American, Latinx, and Indigenous peoples, or the discriminatory acts targeting individuals of Asian descent and foreign nationals from many countries in this pandemic. This adds to the already vulnerable experience of so many in our community, including but not limited to DACA students who are unsure about their future; individuals with disabilities who can feel invisible; LGBTQ+ individuals experiencing verbal and physical acts of violence; individuals subjected to intolerance based on their religious identity and beliefs; and people of color who are forced to constantly question if they can engage safely in routine activities like jogging or bird watching.

These events underscore the critical importance of our infusing diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in everything we do every single day. Not with mantra and platitudes, but with clearly articulated and tangible action that is supported by the University with budget and action. As scholars, educators, and colleagues, we are uniquely positioned to reflect, learn, and act.

We are committed to this work as UConn moves forward from some of its own recent struggles. We have a crucial new partner in these efforts with the recent hire of Dr. Frank Tuitt as our new Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer. We are all eager to work with him to sustain a culture that understands, respects, and appreciates differences, but also one that readily acknowledges our shortcomings and holds ourselves accountable for measurable progress at all times.

As he looks ahead to this new role, Frank shared the following: "I strongly believe that institutions like UConn should be at the center of creating spaces for students, faculty, and staff to imagine and invent ways to build more inclusive, affirming, and equitable institutions, organizations, and communities, and I look forward to doing my part to contribute to that collective effort."

We have communicated closely with him over the past several days, and we all will benefit from his leadership and expertise.

We have the opportunity to engage our entire community in the work that is needed, building upon continued advocacy and efforts of concerned faculty, staff, and administrators at UConn in collaboration with our cultural centers and our amazing undergraduate and graduate students who are willing to speak clearly and directly about their experiences. Change cannot be carried out by one person or one office alone. Too often the labor of this work is disproportionately undertaken by our most vulnerable, impacting their career progression, as well as their mental health and overall satisfaction with their work experience. This is a time when we can build momentum to share the responsibility across our entire community at our Storrs, UConn Health, Avery Point, Hartford, Stamford, Waterbury, and law school campuses.

We also have been extremely fortunate to benefit from the stewardship of Interim Chief Diversity Officer Dana Wilder. Building on strengths of the Office for Diversity and Inclusion, we are positioned as a national leader and a place where people of all identities feel they have a genuine opportunity for success and belonging. We encourage each of you to explore their website, which includes multiple resources including trainings and guides as well as information on events and cultural centers sponsored by their office.

There are no simple solutions or easy answers to solve the issues of injustice and prejudice in society and at our University. Of all of the various parts of our experience as administrators, this is the one area where we both feel like we have not done enough or met our own expectations. We do not experience that feeling as despair, but instead as a motivator to understand and accept our own privilege and the responsibilities that it brings to do more. We encourage our community to hold our entire leadership team accountable as we carry out that vital work together.

The challenge now is to remember this moment even if it fades from the headlines and to continue to strive for a society and a UConn that allows all to live safely and welcomed.

Sincerely,
Tom and Carl

Tom Katsouleas
President

Carl Lejuez
Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs
WE CAN DO BETTER AS A UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY
Photo by Kathy F. Atkinson June 04, 2020

A message from UD President Dennis Assanis
Editor's note: President Dennis Assanis shared this message with the University community on June 4.

Dear UD Community,

Our society is calling for equity and social justice. I hear you, and I am part of that call. We can do better as a University community. And we will do it together.

Over the past several days, many of you have written to me or posted your thoughts on social media to express your anger and frustration about the racial injustices that have been laid bare by the social unrest taking place in our nation. What’s more, I have been truly heartbroken to hear the stories of discrimination and prejudice that many of you have experienced, whether in our broader society or, unfortunately, here within our own community. It is so disturbing to see that some individuals do not grasp the insidious nature of racism and the very real pain caused by offensive and exclusionary language.

Every member of our community — students, faculty, and staff — is welcomed and valued at the University of Delaware. We must ensure that everyone is treated with respect and a sense of belonging. We should seek to find commonality, humanity, and civility to bridge our differences. We condemn the discriminatory and inflammatory words used by some members of our community. They do not reflect the University’s values. We are addressing each of these situations in accordance with the University’s conduct and non-discrimination policies.

Last week, the nationwide protests began as a response to the senseless deaths of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky — as well as the long list of other victims of discrimination and violence in American history. The global consciousness that has been reawakened by these tragedies must continue to advance our progress toward a society that is anti-racist and anti-hate. Education lies at the heart of this effort and is the key to real and lasting change.

Without a doubt, the University of Delaware can and must do more to expand diversity and promote inclusion and equity in our community. Since coming to UD, I have tried to face the challenges of history and culture that I see. Indeed, building inclusive excellence has always been personally important to me. While we have made strides in diversifying our faculty ranks and our student enrollment, there is clearly additional work to be done. I am committed — as is my administration — to redoubling our efforts to increase minority representation among our students, faculty and staff. But we know that the numbers are just one component of the equation. We must work ever harder to promote a more inclusive culture throughout UD where everyone is valued and all can expand their potential and believe in a better future.

To this end, I will be working closely with campus leaders to ensure progress and action around key needs of the University. Recognizing that these are both priorities and opportunities to take UD forward, we all need to take the following steps:

We need to build a more inclusive culture — Through education for all members of our community, we can cultivate a greater appreciation of the value of diverse peoples, cultures and perspectives. This is absolutely essential in modern society and directly supports our institutional mission to prepare our citizens to succeed. This semester we piloted an online diversity, equity, and inclusion education module. We will plan to require this training of all undergraduate and graduate students beginning in this upcoming academic year.
We need to listen and learn — We are planning a series of forums that will span the entire next academic year where all members of our community will have their voices heard and acknowledged. The input gathered at these forums will help inform our next steps as we continue to improve our campus climate with actionable initiatives. We are also mindful of those who have been silent, and we encourage them to come forward and share their stories, perspectives and ideas.
We need to act now — We will strengthen our collective awareness of and response to prejudice, diligently recruit underrepresented faculty and students, and raise funds for social justice initiatives on campus. We will also connect our campus-wide efforts and networks into a more robust agenda for larger impact.
We need to ensure accountability and operate effectively together as a united community — Everyone is responsible, and this needs to be enforced through renewed policies and practices using a framework where differences are respected and celebrated. We must also ensure that our campus climate and culture assessments are frequent and thorough, and that they reaffirm our commitment to improve the diversity and inclusion landscape at UD.
We have more to do — This list is not exhaustive, nor will it ever end. Our work to build a more equitable and inclusive society must be ongoing. We will remain committed to being open, to listening and to working together to make progress possible at UD. We not only welcome your active engagement; we need it. This is a call to action for everyone here now and with ties to UD.
There will be additional steps in the coming weeks and months. I welcome your input as we move forward. Please always feel free to reach out to Michael Vaughan, interim vice provost for diversity and inclusion, at vpd@udel.edu, or José-Luis Riera, vice president for student life, at studentdiversity@udel.edu.

This is an extraordinarily challenging time for all of us. I am inspired by the strength, the caring and the unshakable resolve of the University of Delaware community, and I ask you to join me in recommitting ourselves to ensuring that our institution continues to be a source of pride for all students, all faculty, all staff, all alumni … all people.

Sincerely,

Dennis Assanis, President


George Floyd was a member of our Third Ward community and we share in the tremendous pain our community is experiencing. Our thoughts are with his friends and family, Houston and the nation at large. We mourn with you.
June 4, 2020 | Let Us Reflect on this Day of Mourning
Dear University of Idaho Faculty, Staff and Students,

Today is a National Day of Mourning to respectfully recognize the death of George Floyd and the loss to his family as well as other lives lost. Words and actions matter, especially in times of national unrest and fearfulness, and especially from institutional leaders. They can calm or provoke, heal or hurt, and at their best, motivate meaningful change for good. The memo we sent out earlier this week regarding diversity and safety missed that last mark.

Asking that we treat each other with kindness and compassion was perceived by some as a request not to engage when we witness racism or injustice. That could not be further from what was intended. We must act against racism and injustice by addressing the change that needs to occur to create social equity.

So, today, in this moment of mourning, let me be more direct:

Black lives matter, and what happened to George Floyd and so, so many other African American and black citizens is abhorrent. No human being should ever have to fear for their life based solely on the color of their skin. The tragic fact is this is not a new phenomenon, but rather an all too frequent part of our national history.
There is no room for disagreement when it comes to basic human civil rights and crimes against humanity. We have a responsibility to engage and act when we see injustice. Truly, our future as a society depends on it.
We should be able to have a difficult conversation about race and equity issues and treat each other with civility and compassion … including on social media. This does not mean we tolerate or condone racism or hate crimes; it means that we are a place where people from all backgrounds should feel safe.
Listening — and truly hearing — the concerns of African American and black students, faculty, staff, and alumni, as well as other underrepresented communities, is critical to moving forward. Action toward lasting change matters as well. After campuswide discussions, we have adopted a diversity plan that we believe will help take action and address issues of social inequity. As Vandals, let’s work together and tackle these issues. It is the only way to realize the very best future for the community. Let’s take this National Day of Mourning to pay our respects to a life unjustly taken and work on our own reflection and racial reconciliation.

Scott Green
President

president@uidaho.edu
uidaho.edu/president
The anger, sadness, and fear felt by our community, and specifically Black communities across our nation, over the killing of George Floyd are justified. This is not a new phenomenon and the Black community is, we are sure, exhausted from the constant trauma and pain of being the recipients of mistreatment by those who are tasked with serving and protecting communities—the police.

There is also disappointment, frustration, and pain due to the continued disproportionate police brutality against people of color, specifically the Black community. These inequalities manifest themselves economically and socially. No one should feel their race or any aspect of their identity makes them a target for violence. Addressing inequality requires changing hearts, minds, and systems, and the University of Iowa will continue to work toward that goal through actions. To that end, we will release an update to our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Action Plan, which our community has developed, this coming week.

Over the past several days, the images from across our nation are difficult to comprehend and elicit a range of feelings. While we will engage with these emotions individually, and on our own timeline, one thing is clear—together we must act. Each of us must lead change within our individual communities to actively disrupt racism (interpersonal, systemic, and societal).

As you know, on our campus and within our community:

    We will not tolerate anything but a safe and inclusive campus for people of all backgrounds regardless of race, creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, religion, ancestry, or disability.
    We value the First Amendment and freedom of expression and believe civil discourse and the respectful exchange of ideas are the cornerstones of higher education and this great institution.

We are here to help. Many resources are available and we encourage you to reach out and ask for help.
We, the Chancellor and Provost of the University of Kansas, are emerging, as many of you are, from a week of heart wrenching conversations about the toxic impact that racism has on all of our communities. The deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and David McAtee, and the exchange between Amy Cooper and Christian Cooper in Central Park, are just recent and high-profile additions to innumerable immoral acts of racism to Black members of our communities.

The protests across the country, in the region, and in our cities over the past week and in Lawrence Sunday night are powerful statements of the depth of pain and anger that so many of our students, colleagues and friends are feeling. We have done a lot of listening over the past several days, and we recognize the disappointment that our earlier messages created. We hear our community members when you tell us you are broken-hearted and exhausted, and that it’s too much to bear.

We know that acts of racism and discrimination, in their many forms, happen in Lawrence and at KU, and on a regular basis. We are not free of the causes of this period of protest and unrest.

The egregious acts of racism and discrimination that have been targeted toward our Black community members do not stand in isolation. Members of Asian, LatinX, Muslim, immigrant and LGBTQIA communities are also targets of hate speech, discrimination, and racialized violence. Our community members who have disabilities and those who experience challenges with mental health are often stigmatized, abandoned, and suffer in silence. Members of our Black and Native communities have been disproportionately devastated by COVID-19, which is another fatal reminder of the systemic disparities in health outcomes, availability of financial support, and educational resources for so many of our most vulnerable community members.

Our hearts break with yours. We stand with you and for you.

It’s long past time for racism and discrimination to end. If we are to be on the side of social justice, we — meaning, we as leaders, KU as an institution, and each of us as community members — simply must do the work.

We all need KU to be a place that doesn’t replicate, tolerate or perpetuate racism, systematically, systemically, or individually. We know you are anxiously waiting and hoping that we can get past talking and hollow promises, and do something together in a different way that begins to make things better. You want us to hold ourselves to a higher standard, and we are ready to step up, to take responsibility, and to place KU at the forefront of social change.

In consultation and collaboration with leaders of our communities of color and marginalized groups, we begin today to engage in actions that move us to change:

    We will convene the leaders of our campus police, the City of Lawrence Police Department, the City Manager and the Mayor to discuss policing strategies that reinforce respectful and community-engaged policing, and to re-emphasize comprehensive police training that does not permit the kinds of acts that led to the death of George Floyd and so many others.
    We will bring together the leaders of our diversity councils to establish a university-level advisory council for equity and inclusion and commit to regular and continued outreach.
    We will charge leaders across campus to participate in training that will allow us to begin the work of facilitating intergroup dialogues that bring together representatives of agent groups and target groups to open up difficult conversations.
    We will partner with leaders in higher education and in the public and private sectors across the Greater Kansas City Region to engage in initiatives that immediately begin to address root causes in key areas that impact racial violence.
    We will ensure that improving equity, diversity and inclusion is explicitly stated as a goal for each team in our COVID-19 Design Challenge and in the longer term, in all of our Jayhawks Rising strategic doing activities.

Memorial Hall Mural: Our Past, Our Present and Why It's Time to Move Forward
By President Eli Capilouto Friday

LEXINGTON, Ky. (June 5, 2020) — On Friday, June 5, University of Kentucky President Eli Capilouto sent the following message to all students, faculty and staff:

 

I have not been able to get the images out of my mind. And the images should be — and will be forever — in my mind.

For eight minutes and 46 seconds, on a street in an American city in 2020, George Floyd was suffocated to death — a knee at his neck, gasps escaping from his mouth, as he pleaded for his life and for his mother.

I can't adequately articulate the horror and disturbing nature of those images to me. I don't have words to capture the mix of emotions — of anger and sadness, disbelief and nagging recognition that we have been here before — that have gnawed at me for days.

But I also know that I can't begin to feel how a Black man or woman or the parent of a Black child processes those images, either.

To every issue, we bring our curated experiences — funneled through the prism of our mind's eye — to an incident like this one or, for that matter, to a work of music, writing or art. Those sounds, images and narratives are necessarily interpreted with the context of a given moment by generations of people over the passage of time.

The simple truth is I can't walk in their shoes. I can't be in their skin. And I can't understand what intergenerational subjugation does to families who are its victims.

But I can try for greater understanding, a deeper sense of empathy and renewed resolve to contribute to healing, to do justice and to find reconciliation. As much as racism is a systemic stain on our country, so too, are we the inheritors of Dr. King's admonition that the moral arc of the universe ultimately bends toward justice. That is where I believe we find ourselves as a campus community today. We have not been immune from racial prejudice and hate, but I believe deeply that there is a commitment to doing better tomorrow than we are doing today.

It's against that imperfect and human backdrop that I am directing our facilities team to immediately begin the process of removing the mural in Memorial Hall.

Why now? And what does this move accomplish?

Just as certain images haunt me, I also cannot escape certain conversations that, over years, remain fresh.

To many, the mural represents the work of a renowned artist, seeking in her time, to represent the evolution, however halting, of her native state. And as with all art, we seek to understand the intent of the artist and bring our own meaning and interpretation to it.

I remember a conversation at Maxwell Place with 24 African American students in the fall of 2015. There, they detailed a list of recommendations that included "racist mural in Memorial Hall." There was a conversation with one student about the mural who stopped me cold with the observation that every time he walked into a class in Memorial Hall, he was forced to reckon with the fact that his forbears were enslaved.

They were chattel; brutalized as disposable property, even though in their time, they were regarded as essential to the economy's progress.

The art, to this student, sought to glorify and sanitize that fact. And he was speaking for many others, over many years, a point made clear again to me recently as we began conversations with our student leaders on how to move forward during this fraught time. The mural once again was a symbol, not of a state's evolution, but of our unwillingness to recognize their experiences as members of our community.

Memorial Hall of course, has its own important story — the story of the UK students and Kentuckians who laid down their lives during the Great War. It is a building constructed in honor of all Kentuckians — African Americans, Native Americans, and women alike — who gave their lives to preserve liberty. 

How do we reconcile those images as perceived now with that narrative?

To be sure, we have discussed the mural for many years and made a number of important, productive efforts to seek common ground and lasting solutions. But the spaces we have created for dialogue, and the work we have commissioned to expand conversation and contextualize art, haven't worked, frankly.

Our efforts and solutions with the mural, for many of our students, have been a roadblock to reconciliation, rather than a path toward healing. That's not a criticism. It is a statement of fact and, I hope, understanding.

We need to move forward. We have a lot of discussion that needs to take place on our campus. And those discussions cannot obviate the necessity of thoughtful, but decisive, action on a number of fronts.

I don't believe we can have that conversation with the mural still, metaphorically, on the table. And, so while in the context of many significant issues we must discuss and decide upon, the mural may appear relatively small, it carries with it tremendous symbolic weight.

I want to remove that weight from the discussions we must have, so that we can act, together, as a community. As we determine how we can move forward with removing the mural, I will communicate with the campus.

There is rarely a perfect solution to challenging issues. But it is the right one, I believe, for our campus at this moment and in the years to come.

Eli Capilouto

--

Media note: Downloadable videos and photo available at https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1BTRFI3FPfLd1tR9KRhmI1AjYRjIrACui?usp=sharing

The University of Kentucky is increasingly the first choice for students, faculty and staff to pursue their passions and their professional goals. In the last two years, Forbes has named UK among the best employers for diversity, and INSIGHT into Diversity recognized us as a Diversity Champion three years running. UK is ranked among the top 30 campuses in the nation for LGBTQ* inclusion and safety. UK has been judged a "Great College to Work for" two years in a row, and UK is among only 22 universities in the country on Forbes' list of "America's Best Employers."  We are ranked among the top 10 percent of public institutions for research expenditures — a tangible symbol of our breadth and depth as a university focused on discovery that changes lives and communities. And our patients know and appreciate the fact that UK HealthCare has been named the state's top hospital for four straight years. Accolades and honors are great. But they are more important for what they represent: the idea that creating a community of belonging and commitment to excellence is how we honor our mission to be not simply the University of Kentucky, but the University for Kentucky.
Message to the UIC Community
May 29, 2020

Dear Faculty, Staff and Students,

This week we saw yet another manifestation of the racism that remains in the fabric of our society. The killing of George Floyd in Minnesota, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky, along with other recent events, remind us again, though we don’t need reminding, how far we still have to go as a society to heal centuries of discrimination and achieve true equality.

We share your grief and outrage and we encourage you to continue to live the values of our university — to be inclusive, to treat each other with dignity and respect, and to provide a safe and supportive environment for each other.

At UIC, we are committed to addressing the deep systemic injustice of racism and advancing equity and inclusion for all people in Chicago, in the nation and around the world.  We are a community that values our differences, our diversity and our shared compassion for humanity. We will always strive to be one grounded in mutual understanding and respect.

If you need support coping with the disturbing events that occurred this week, we encourage you to use the many resources on campus available to support students, faculty and staff.

Sincerely,

Michael Amiridis
Chancellor

Susan Poser
Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs

Robert Barish
Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs

J. Rex Tolliver
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Print Friendly, PDF & Email
Contact
UIC News staff

uicnews-staff@uic.edu
          Reflecting on the events in Minneapolis and beyond
May 30, 2020 11:19 AM

Dear Students, Staff and Faculty,

We, along with so many, are struggling to fully comprehend the systemic violence and the actions of members of the Minneapolis Police Department that resulted in the death of George Floyd this week. This is the home of one of the members of our Big Ten university family and our thoughts are with our colleagues and the broader Minneapolis-St. Paul community today.

And while George Floyd is who we see and mourn this week, we have also witnessed the senseless deaths of Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor this spring.

We stand in the middle of a global health crisis that will claim hundreds of thousands of lives and burden millions of others for a generation to come. These are days when the health of our communities depends entirely on our collective commitment to care for one another. This is when we most need to come together.

It is painful to watch streets filled with more anger and more violence sparked by divisive sources of hatred that our nation seems unable to set aside even when we are all threatened by this virus that does not discriminate in choosing who it harms.

For some of us, this is very, very personal. But the grief, sadness and loss is profound and universal.

The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is a community committed to the scholarship, engagement, equity, inclusion and leadership that dismantles systems that utilize power, privilege and violence to disenfranchise, diminish and destroy.

And unfortunately, this same pandemic that has disrupted so much, also prevents us from coming together physically here at Illinois. We are not able to help each other process what we are seeing and what we are feeling in the way we would wish. So, today, when we cannot raise our voices together, we want to share this message in the hope that it will remind everyone that we do not have to remain silent alone.  

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery. Breonna Taylor. We can say their names and we can help ensure that they are not allowed to be forgotten.  

Sincerely,

Robert J. Jones
Chancellor

Barry Benson
Vice Chancellor for Advancement

Andreas C. Cangellaris
Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and Provost

Sean C. Garrick
Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Susan A. Martinis
Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation

Danita M. B. Young
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

 

          
                   
                  
This mailing approved by:
Office of the Chancellor

sent to:
Everyone
          
                   
 
Massmail Archive   •   Massmail powered by Webtools
 
Students lead the way toward reconciliation
Dr. Joseph Savoie -- Sun, 05/31/2020 - 2:23pm
Dear members of the University family,

George Floyd. Ahmaud Arbery. Breonna Taylor. Tony McDade. 

Their tragic deaths – and those of countless others – are reminders that our nation has much work to do to address discrimination, intolerance and other inexcusable barriers to social justice that have burdened us for far too long.

Universities are a place where that work can occur. Indeed, they are a place where it must occur.

It is the University’s responsibility to model principles of civility, respect and understanding for both its campus family and its wider community. Moreover, it is our duty to embody inclusivity and embrace diversity, and to educate others about their power.

Today, our students exemplified these ideals.

Members of the Student Action and Organizing Committee led a community dialogue on campus about the basic human right that all people – regardless of race, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation or ethnicity – have to live in freedom and security.

These students confronted the sadness, pain and outrage they feel about the events of the past week with clarity and thoughtfulness. They answered insular hate with the diverse voice of which this institution is so proud and from which we draw so much strength.

Our students demonstrated civic engagement and community leadership today, and I applaud them.

Moreover, they showed that the path to binding our nation’s wounds – no matter how deep, how historic and how painful – can be illuminated through conversation rather than violence.

Sincerely,

Dr. Joseph Savoie
President

UM denounces racism
Message from President David T. Barnard
JUNE 2, 2020 — 
 

Dear University Community,

Recent tragic deaths have caused immense suffering and anger as they represent a legacy of racism and police brutality against Black people. We are also witnessing alarming displays of racism against the Asian community in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic; and we recognize the interpersonal and systemic racism that is continually experienced by Indigenous Peoples.

On behalf of the University of Manitoba, I want to say clearly that we denounce racism in all its forms, we commit to solidarity with Black, Indigenous and/or People of Colour (BIPOC) and we commit ourselves to listen, to learn and to do better.

For those of us with privilege, it can be easy to ignore what’s happening, to say that it is not our problem or our story here in Canada. But silence represents ignorance and fear. We must be anti-racist. We must recognize white privilege, and that we exist in systems of white supremacy. We must remember that Canada was built on the lands of the Indigenous Peoples and on the backs of Black and Asian workers. We must join our voices to say enough is enough. 

Though I can never fully understand the experiences of racialized communities, I can commit to educating myself on their stories and histories and I encourage others to do the same. I call on our university community – united in our pursuit of knowledge – to research perspectives beyond our own, to learn the many ways that racism is enforced by our social structures, to seek out difficult truths and to acknowledge harms of the past and the present.

The University of Manitoba community believes in the inherent dignity of all people. We respect our differences, celebrate our commonalities, and are united in our mutual focus on intellectual achievement. We continue to strengthen alliances that are working to increase mutual understanding, respect and support.

Finally, to UM’s racialized students and colleagues, thank you for your strength and resilience. Thank you to those who take the time to educate your peers and colleagues and to speak your truth. Thank you for contributing to the strength of our institution.

We are sorry. Now, we must listen. We must learn. We must do better.

Sincerely,
David

To anyone who is looking for support during this time, please connect with Student Counselling Centre or Employee Assistance Program. If you have experienced discrimination while working or studying at UM, please contact our Office of Human Rights and Conflict Management. UM is also home to a number of groups who are leading crucial work to address racism, and promote diversity and inclusion. 
Statement by USM Leadership on Structural Racism and the Killing of George Floyd
Baltimore, Md. (May 29, 2020) – This week, George Floyd was killed in Minneapolis, a brutal act that recalled other recent killings of black Americans. We acknowledge with one voice the structural racism that’s taking the lives of our fellow citizens, and we stand in solidarity as we speak out against racism, anti-Semitism, sexism, discrimination against our LGBTQ and immigrant communities, religious intolerance, and bigotry of any kind.

We are justly saddened, angered, and frustrated by these acts of brutality and the lack of action when black men and women are killed. Mindful of public health guidelines, we also affirm the right of our communities to protest safely and peacefully to address their legitimate concerns.

We believe that public colleges and universities are obligated to help end inequity and to promote social justice. We draw on the leadership and wisdom of our students, faculty, and staff, many of whom confront these issues every day through their teaching, research, and activism.

We encourage all members of the USM community to seek support, if needed, and to involve themselves in addressing these challenges. We urge our students and colleagues not only to vote, but to help safeguard and improve our democracy.

In the days and weeks ahead, we will be listening to the voices of those who are too often silenced or ignored. When we gather together on campus once again, we will examine with greater resolve the racism and systemic inequities that so gravely endanger our minority communities. We are proud to be a part of a University System that believes in humanity, justice, and opportunity for all.

Please take care of yourselves, your families, and your communities during this difficult time.

Jay A. Perman, Chancellor, University System of Maryland

Aminta Breaux, President, Bowie State University
Anthony Jenkins, President, Coppin State University
Ronald Nowaczyk, President, Frostburg State University
Charles Wight, President, Salisbury University
Kim Schatzel, President, Towson University
Kurt Schmoke, President, University of Baltimore
Bruce E. Jarrell, Interim President, University of Maryland, Baltimore
Freeman A. Hrabowski III, President, University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Peter Goodwin, President, University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science
Wallace D. Loh, President University of Maryland, College Park
Heidi Anderson, President, University of Maryland Eastern Shore
Javier Miyares, President, University of Maryland Global Campus

Stewart Edelstein, Executive Director, Universities at Shady Grove
Mark Halsey, Executive Director, University System of Maryland at Hagerstown
Ben Latigo, Interim Executive Director, University System of Maryland at Southern Maryland


 
Contact: Mike Lurie
Phone: 301.445.2719
Email: mlurie@usmd.edu


Pines: Stand in Solidarity, Unite Against Injustice
President-designate Calls Acts of Violence Against Black Community Nationwide a ‘Stain’ Against UMD Values

By Maryland Today Staff  /  Jun 01, 2020

Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Email
Print this article
Campus aerial shot of Hornbake Library
President-designate Darryll J. Pines writes that the injustices against African Americans in the midst of a pandemic are a double blow to black and brown communities. "They cause additional pain and grief at a time when we are dealing with so many other challenges."
(Photo by John T. Consoli)

University of Maryland President-designate Darryll J. Pines sent the following email to the campus community this afternoon:

Dear University of Maryland Community:

On Wednesday morning, May 26, 2020, I woke up to go through my normal daily routine of getting prepared for the workday. But even before I could start my morning walk with my dog, my cellphone was already vibrating with texts and emails about something that had happened the evening before. Many colleagues, family members and friends had sent me links to the now-infamous video of yet another black man losing his life at the hands of law enforcement. This time, for allegedly using a counterfeit $20 bill at a local shop in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

I took a moment to click on the links and watch the more than nine-minute video of the last breath being sucked out of the body of Mr. George Floyd. As a black man, I screamed words that I cannot repeat here. As a father, I started to reflect on the safety of my son and daughter and on all the diverse communities who are negatively impacted by acts of injustice. I asked myself, what is wrong with our country when these incidents continue to happen time and time again?

In recent weeks we have again witnessed senseless acts of violence perpetrated against the black community. The tragic loss of lives—those of George Floyd in Minneapolis, and before that, the deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, Tony McDade and Sean Reed—due to racial violence is deeply saddening and a stain against the values that we personally hold, and that the University of Maryland, as an institution, cherishes.

The fact that these horrific acts have occurred in the midst of a pandemic is a double blow to black and brown communities. They cause additional pain and grief at a time when we are dealing with so many other challenges. But the shameful reality is that the virus has disproportionately affected communities of color. It has exposed the base inequities of our health care system and made painfully clear how those who have suffered so many other injustices for so long must also unequally bear the burden of this disease. These additional acts of racism and hatred bring into greater focus the injustices occurring in our nation.

The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., once said that:

"The ultimate measure of a man is not where one stands in moments of comfort and convenience but where one stands in times of challenge and controversy."

As a university community, we must not accept these latest incidents as inconsequential. We all must rise up and stand together to show our humanity to one another. We must remind ourselves of Dr. King’s words that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." Finally, we must heed the words of the late President John F. Kennedy, "what unites us is greater than what divides us."

Even though we are physically separated, now is the time to stand in solidarity and unite against any injustice.

Sincerely,

Darryll J. Pines
Glenn L. Martin Professor of Aerospace Engineering
President-Designate
University of Maryland

Tags:Campus & Community

Taking Action at UMass Amherst to Combat Racism: A Message from Nefertiti Walker, Interim Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
June 3, 2020
Dear Campus Community, 

Today, I write to you with a range of emotions. Fear for protesters, some of whom encounter fierce violence. Disappointment in our country for not reckoning with our intimate relationship with anti-Black racism. Frustrated at our institutions for failing to undo the institutionalized racism that we know to be true. 

For years, Black people and allies have been pleading for the end of racism and the violence that follows. Most recently, we cried out for change after the lost lives of Trayvon Martin, Tamir Rice, Michael Brown, Philando Castile, Eric Garner and Sandra Bland, and more recently Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and George Floyd. This list is not conclusive. This list is void of many lives lost to anti-Black racism, and countless other lives devastated by the omnipresence of our nation’s most pervasive disease, racism. 

We have been repeatedly challenged by this violence and by other disturbing acts – increased anti-Asian racism, growing xenophobia and escalating anti-Semitic attacks. This cannot, and will not, be our normal at UMass. We are hopeful and encouraged by the work we have been doing to combat racism and will continue to work tirelessly to undo it in our community. 

To that point, we are immediately getting to work with the following:

Respectful Workplace Training Series. In collaboration with the Office of Equity and Inclusion, Workplace Learning & Development and The Partnership for Worker Education, the purpose is to educate staff about resources available and supervisors (including faculty) on their responsibilities to ensure a university work environment grounded in antiracism, respect and inclusion.
Critical Incident Team. We are developing a triage team to respond consistently to critical campus issues and lead with humanity. More details to follow.
Campus Academy Initiative. The University of Massachusetts Police Department is applying for a team of campus and student leaders (including UMPD representation) to attend a three-day Campus Academy Initiative workshop in August 2020, offered by the Divided Community Project. The aim of the program is to immerse campus leaders in a curriculum aimed at strengthening and expanding campus-specific conflict-resolution capacity and practices. UMPD is committed to participating, as part of our community, in any training, seminar or effort to increase levels of understanding, prevention and responsiveness to critical issues like the ones we continue to see play out across our country.
Increased Data-driven Climate Assessments. We know that within our UMass community, we have micro cultures where people live – in their academic departments, classrooms and residence halls. We need to better understand these climates. Therefore, we will launch a series of assessments to measure and better understand the micro cultures that often impact our community most. This data will then be aggregated and live on the www.umass.edu/diversity website, providing transparency and the ability to inform the actions of the newly formed councils and task force below.
The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leadership Council. This council will convene immediately and be charged by the Chancellor and chaired by the Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. This group will meet regularly to assess, evaluate and advise about the university’s DEI policies and practices. Their meeting minutes will be uploaded to: www.umass.edu/diversity. 
The DEI Student Council. This will be co-chaired by the Senior Director of DEI  and the Assistant Chancellor of Advocacy, Inclusion and Support Programs. This group will meet with student DEI representatives to discuss and advance the most pressing student DEI issues. Similarly, their meeting minutes will be uploaded to: www.umass.edu/diversity.
The Task Force for Anti-racism. In response to the most recent anti-Black violence as well as the increase of other types of racism nationally, this group will be a collection of faculty, staff and students who will work to undo institutional racism in our community. They will be chaired or co-chaired by a combination of faculty, staff and students. More details to follow.
Finally, we will work with each major business unit on campus to set goals related to diversity (representation/under-representation), equity (access and opportunity), and inclusion (feeling welcome and sense of belonging). Leaders will be responsible for setting a culture of inclusion for all people in their area. Therefore, we will set and seek to meet DEI goals as they align with our campus strategic goal of inclusive excellence.

We encourage our students, staff and faculty to exercise their right to speak against the injustice they see in our society, and we implore you to join us in being part of the solutions. These resources will guide and support you in your quest for equity.

Racism, in its many forms, did not emerge overnight or in the past week. It has matured for hundreds of years. Therefore, it will take time and deliberate effort to confront. It will require intentional goal setting, data-informed decision making, and anti-racist action, to truly achieve our goal of inclusive excellence. 

Sincerely,

Nefertiti A. Walker, Ph.D.
Interim Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Chief Diversity Officer 
Driving Change and Reform Needed
Dear Faculty, Staff and Students:

Over the course of the past seven years, together our campus community has faced and overcome many difficult challenges. As we continue to grapple with COVID-19 and its harsh economic consequences, recent national events have revealed some ugly and enduring inequities in American society, sparking anxiety, upset and outrage. In a period of American history unclear and confused in direction and purpose, one thing is abundantly clear. We cannot solve problems we do not acknowledge. The pain and loss of this pandemic have not been evenly distributed in Memphis, in Tennessee, nor across the United States. The most vulnerable among us carry the majority of that burden. This pandemic has revealed decades-long and enduring economic and health-care inequities that cut along racial lines and are at the foundation of that vulnerability. That pain has only been magnified by recent hate-filled violence against African-American men.

As an institution of higher education in one of the most diverse communities in America, our University is committed to being part of the solution. We are a place of hope, healing and healthy debate. We have an identified set of core values that embrace fairness, equity and justice, and we are committed to living those on a daily basis, particularly when they are most needed. It is clear that Memphis needs us, and we are here to help. I will be reaching out to our campus to assist in facilitating the change and reform needed. I am proud to be a Memphian, and a part of a community that works together. Our University is committed to being a part of the solution and helping drive the change and reform needed.  

Regards, 

M. David Rudd, Ph.D., ABPP
President, University of Memphis
Distinguished University Professor of Psychology

Admissions

Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour
Academics

Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware
Athletics

gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media
Research

Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research
Support UofM

Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Administrative Support

President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology
Services
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation
UofM Global Explore Lambuth Campus
Follow UofM Online

Instagram
Facebook
twitter
Youtube
Linkedn
TNeCampus.info
Tennessee Transfer Pathway
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis
Important Notice
 Last Updated: 6/1/20
The University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000
The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.
We need to bring about change
May 29, 2020
I have watched and read in horror reports of the death of George Floyd in Minnesota. Many members of the University of Michigan community have reached out to me to express their heartache and anger that another unarmed African American has been killed by police, who have violated their duty to protect and serve.

I want to thank those of you who have shared your personal feelings on this tragedy. I know that your pain is very real and profound. Many members of our community are experiencing this tragedy in ways that are inseparable from their race and ethnicity – and in ways that I will never be able to fully and personally realize. For instance, our Chief Diversity Officer Robert Sellers has very poignantly written about his experiences today.

I condemn the actions that caused the tragic deaths of George Floyd, of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and of Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. There are far, far too many more examples of racism and violence against people of color from all across our nation, including in our surrounding community.

The reality and scope of this problem are pervasive. A 2018 study whose authors included U-M Institute for Social Research fellow Michael Esposito found that "the risk of being killed by police, relative to White men, is between 3.2 and 3.5 times higher for Black men." Thanks to U-M Political Science Prof. Christian Davenport, we know that the exercising of fundamental rights is treated differently, as "African American protest events are more likely to draw police presence, even when we control for the measures of behavioral threat."

At U-M, we must use our power to address major societal problems – especially those that diminish our society so tragically. This is clear in our mission.

Our mission is also why our work to enhance diversity, equity and inclusion must continue. The University of Michigan has a critical role to play and obligation to lead the kind of changes in our society that we all want to see. I know that our Division of Public Safety and Security is committed to being a continuing partner in this ongoing work. DEI will continue as a major focus of the institution throughout my presidency, beyond our initial five-year Strategic Plan. We must utilize our scholarship, the education and the engagement of our talented faculty, students, and staff to bring about change not only within the university, but also in our broader society. Our collective future depends on it.

During this difficult time, I urge anyone who needs support to access our university's resources.

Students on all three campuses can receive support through CAPS, the university's counseling and psychological services. All faculty and staff in Ann Arbor, Dearborn and Flint can access services through the Faculty and Staff Counseling and Consultation Office. Michigan Medicine faculty and staff can access resources through Office of Counseling and Workplace Resilience.
Skip to navigationSkip to content
Committees
Chancellor Appearance Request
Contact
Office of the Chancellor
University of Missouri

About Planning Inside Mizzou Remarks & Presentations Distinguished Leaders Lecture
June 4, 2020: Tigers leading change
Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Alumni,

Over the last several days, we have seen an outpouring of support for those who have faced racism, both in our community and throughout the country.

University leaders and I have sent notes in recent days voicing our sorrow over the recent injustices and tragic deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor. We have vowed to do more as we have met with numerous black students, staff and faculty who have described the immense toll that systemic discrimination and racism has taken on their confidence in justice, on their mental health and on their hope that true change will ever happen.

We have been watching closely the social media thread #BlackatMizzou on Twitter and Instagram since it began earlier this week and are listening to powerful testimonies from our previous and current students featured there. I can tell you my heart has been rocked by this experience as have many others, and those who shared these posts should know their experiences are valued and have not been ignored.

Each tweet is a sobering reminder of the ugliness many of you have faced. I have been discussing these comments with our deans, faculty and university leaders, and we are learning from the common themes shared while also looking into some specific cases mentioned. These stories of name calling, racist assumptions and lack of response to injustice illustrate to me that our work is far from done related to inclusion, diversity and equity. I wish I could have been there each time these incidents occurred to call out the perpetrators, to hold them accountable and to support those who’ve been affected. But, that’s not possible. So, I call upon each one of us to take the stand to confront discrimination when it happens and to provide care and compassion to those who have suffered from it.

Mizzou continues to be committed to creating an inclusive community where everyone can live, learn and work in an environment that supports and celebrates each individual. I am grateful to our many students, faculty and staff who have worked tirelessly for change at Mizzou. I assure you that we will not stop pressing, and we will strive to spread the responsibility from those who have shouldered the brunt of the work to the larger community. Over the last several years we have done a lot of planning and created some progress and action. We all must do more.

Our community must address this important work together. Some are asking for details of our progress in recent years. To that end, we are organizing community conversations soon to discuss what we have been doing and how we can build on that foundation for a better Mizzou. We will share details in the coming weeks.

On behalf of the faculty, department chairs, deans, provost and the staff, I confirm that we will take important positive actions.

We know our Tiger family will lead change.

Mun Y. Choi, Ph.D.

UM System President and interim MU Chancellor

University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211
573-882-2121

© 2020 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution.

Skip to navigationSkip to content
Committees
Chancellor Appearance Request
Contact
Office of the Chancellor
University of Missouri

About Planning Inside Mizzou Remarks & Presentations Distinguished Leaders Lecture
June 4, 2020: Tigers leading change
Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Alumni,

Over the last several days, we have seen an outpouring of support for those who have faced racism, both in our community and throughout the country.

University leaders and I have sent notes in recent days voicing our sorrow over the recent injustices and tragic deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor. We have vowed to do more as we have met with numerous black students, staff and faculty who have described the immense toll that systemic discrimination and racism has taken on their confidence in justice, on their mental health and on their hope that true change will ever happen.

We have been watching closely the social media thread #BlackatMizzou on Twitter and Instagram since it began earlier this week and are listening to powerful testimonies from our previous and current students featured there. I can tell you my heart has been rocked by this experience as have many others, and those who shared these posts should know their experiences are valued and have not been ignored.

Each tweet is a sobering reminder of the ugliness many of you have faced. I have been discussing these comments with our deans, faculty and university leaders, and we are learning from the common themes shared while also looking into some specific cases mentioned. These stories of name calling, racist assumptions and lack of response to injustice illustrate to me that our work is far from done related to inclusion, diversity and equity. I wish I could have been there each time these incidents occurred to call out the perpetrators, to hold them accountable and to support those who’ve been affected. But, that’s not possible. So, I call upon each one of us to take the stand to confront discrimination when it happens and to provide care and compassion to those who have suffered from it.

Mizzou continues to be committed to creating an inclusive community where everyone can live, learn and work in an environment that supports and celebrates each individual. I am grateful to our many students, faculty and staff who have worked tirelessly for change at Mizzou. I assure you that we will not stop pressing, and we will strive to spread the responsibility from those who have shouldered the brunt of the work to the larger community. Over the last several years we have done a lot of planning and created some progress and action. We all must do more.

Our community must address this important work together. Some are asking for details of our progress in recent years. To that end, we are organizing community conversations soon to discuss what we have been doing and how we can build on that foundation for a better Mizzou. We will share details in the coming weeks.

On behalf of the faculty, department chairs, deans, provost and the staff, I confirm that we will take important positive actions.

We know our Tiger family will lead change.

Mun Y. Choi, Ph.D.

UM System President and interim MU Chancellor

University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211
573-882-2121

© 2020 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution.

Chancellor Green: 'Racism in any form is wrong and has no place in our lives'
Nebraska students hand out "Hate Will Never Win" T-shirts in the Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center before a campus rally in February 2018.
Craig Chandler | University Communication
Nebraska students hand out "Hate Will Never Win" T-shirts in the Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center before a campus rally in February 2018
Editor's Note — Chancellor Ronnie Green was among higher education leaders who responded to the national protests spurred by the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. The chancellor's message, which is below, was released May 30 via his Twitter account to connect immediately with students, faculty, staff and the broader community.

Chancellor Ronnie Green delivers his third State of the University address on Jan. 15. The speech examined the university's 150-year history and charted a course to 2025 and beyond.
Craig Chandler | University Communication
Chancellor Ronnie Green
Jane and I are sickened by the horrific injustice in Minneapolis, and the other forms of injustice that we know we don't see first-hand. Our hearts ache for the senseless loss of George Floyd and his family — and too many others.

Racism in any form is wrong and has no place in our lives, our communities, or institutions. Yet it remains.

Those of us entrusted to leading institutions must stay committed to truly listening, truly learning and to understanding our own bias. We need to encourage honest conversations, big and small, that can help bridge this divide and address deeply embedded histories of exclusion.

I hope and continue to believe that higher education, particularly institutions focused on access, can play a positive role in these conversations.

Review the chancellor's message and responses it received on Twitter.
A message of solidarity from UNLV President Marta Meana
MAY. 31, 2020
Dear colleagues and students,

It is with a heavy heart that I reach out to you in light of the appalling death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis Police. This is just the last in a far too long list of similar atrocities and there is only so much we can bear.

UNLV stands in solidarity with our African American faculty, staff, and students in denouncing this heinous act, in expecting accountability, and in demanding systemic change. The distress that this has caused in our community runs wide and deep. Racism is a far greater long-term threat to this country of ours than any virus. We need to confront it head on and together.

Universities have a responsibility to be beacons in the journey out of this unacceptable state of affairs. Let us double down on our efforts. We need to do this for each other. We need to do this for ourselves.

With sadness and hope,

Marta Meana, Ph.D.
UNLV President
I can’t breathe—again

As we gathered our thoughts at having to address, once again, the reality of the brutal death of an unarmed black man, George Floyd, we must categorically condemn the racism, abuse of power and brutality that led to his death. Mr. Floyd, who pleaded repeatedly for his life—I can’t breathe—eerily evocative of the equally violent death of Eric Garner and so many other black lives, is yet another deeply troubling lost life that ought to serve as a day of reckoning for all of us. As a nation, not only have we not resolved the historically deep wounds of structural racism, inequality, injustice and violence in our country, but those divisions, dramatically intensified in recent times, significantly challenge our democracy. We know from extensive evidence that hate and racial violence have increased to frightening levels in recent years. Let us also bear witness to the fact that in a few months we will be marking the one year anniversary of the El Paso mass killings, one of the deadliest anti-Latino and anti-emigrant hate crimes of recent years; a year ago, also, the shooting in the Poway synagogue took place; increasing attacks on mosques, and many others. These sobering realities must continue guiding our educational mandate on equity and inclusion through meaningful collaborations and much needed healing. Our deepest sense of solidarity to the family of Mr. George Floyd. Our particular support goes out to our Black students, faculty and staff in these somber moments.

Sincerely,

Marc A. Johnson
President
and
Eloisa Gordon-Mora
University Diversity and Inclusion Officer
President, Provost call for focus on core values in wake of George Floyd's death Minneapolis
June 1, 2020

Dear UNH Community,

Like virtually all Americans, we reacted with horror at the recent death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. This was particularly painful coming on the heels of the shooting of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. While the circumstances of these deaths were different, they all underscore the risks to black people interacting with police or simply going about their daily lives (as was demonstrated vividly by what happened to Christian Cooper in New York City). It is beyond belief that more than 50 years after the passage of the Civil Rights Act, nearly 30 years after Rodney King’s beating, six years after the shooting of Michael Brown and the choking death of Eric Garner, tragedies like this continue to occur. It is clear that, as former President Obama said in a recent statement, "If we want our children to grow up in a nation that lives up to its highest ideals, we can and must do better." Our hearts go out to our African American students, faculty, staff and alumni who are particularly affected by these events.

What is the responsibility of a public university like the University of New Hampshire in this situation? We have an obligation to fight ignorance, intolerance and bias, and to teach equality, respect and kindness—these are core values at UNH . The university is where we tackle societal challenges and work together to find solutions. This is founded on our mission to support the bedrock American principle that we are all created equal, and that all of us, regardless of any differences, should enjoy equal rights, opportunities and freedoms. It is fair to say that this passion for freedom is particularly acute in New Hampshire. We must ensure that our students and the whole UNH community deeply understand this shared commitment to our fellow citizens, to better understand when it has been violated. Our recent climate survey revealed that we have our own work to do in this area, which we will continue to do.

We cannot remain silent in the face of the trauma that these events inflict on marginalized communities across the country. We are united in our rejection of hate and intolerance, and call upon all in our community to support each other and those who are surely feeling the weight of these events. We all must renew our commitment to providing a safe and inclusive environment for everyone at UNH, including in interactions with UNH and Durham police. UNH Police Chief Paul Dean has worked extensively to build strong positive relationships with underrepresented students and has provided direction and training to his officers to do the same. Durham Police Chief Dave Kurz has done this as well.

As a research university, we also have the responsibility to address significant national issues. We will conduct a review of our research portfolio and look for opportunities to stimulate and support research on this important national problem. We hope that research can help us to identify practical steps that can be taken to protect the well-being and safety of all Americans while also improving our own racial understanding.

In the coming weeks, we will be meeting with and creating opportunities for faculty, staff and students to come together and share their input and guidance on responding to this challenge. Even in the face of the pandemic and the need to work and learn remotely, we must not lose sight of the importance of all aspects of our mission. In the aftermath of experiencing or witnessing trauma, it is normal to experience a range of feelings and emotions, such as shock, fear, sadness, anger, helplessness or guilt. For those members of our community who are feeling the trauma of this most acutely, we want to remind you that services continue to be available including: Psychological and Counseling Services (PACS); the Beauregard Center (formerly OMSA); Health and Wellness; and the Office of Community Equity and Diversity.

This is in so many ways a challenging time in America, but we as a people have risen to challenges before, and we will find ways to meet this one. We will be in touch with more detail on opportunities for education, research and conversation soon. In the meantime, our wish for all of you is health and safety.

James W. Dean, Jr.
President

Wayne Jones
Vice President and Provost
Leaders at The University of New Mexico have issued strong statements
condemning the brutal killing of George Floyd by police officers in Minnesota
on Memorial Day and the actions of those seeking to prompt further violence at
ensuing protests.
"Watching what is happening across our nation, I join the many voices who are
outraged and condemn not only the actions of the officers who killed George
Floyd, but police brutality against any and all communities of color," said UNM
President Garnett S. Stokes.
Following reports that extremist groups were using civil protests against police
brutality to further elicit violence, President Stokes stated that "peaceful protest
is a healthy way for people to express the hurt, fear and anger these types of
actions incite." She went on to say, "It is abhorrent that white nationalist groups
are taking cover behind legitimate national protests concerning George Floyd and
police brutality to provoke violence against black businesses and society at large."
UNM Police Chief Kevin McCabe issued the
following statement:
"What transpired in Minneapolis this past Memorial Day was appalling and
disgusting – in my opinion, this does not represent American law enforcement and
those who committed this heinous act or stood by and did nothing to intervene
lack the humanity, integrity, and honor to wear the badge of a police officer.
Their senseless actions have stained every professional law enforcement officer
who swore an oath to protect and defend the communities they serve but it is
also a clear call for all of us to stand against this type of abuse of power.
As a police chief, to see this type of brutality makes me sick but I am confident
that justice will prevail in this case. I, along with every member of The University
of New Mexico Police Department, not only strive to do our very best every day
to protect and serve those within our community but also be examples of police
officers that our community expects and deserves."
May 30, 2020
ALL UNIVERSITY MESSAGE
Message from campus leaders on events in Minneapolis
Carolina is committed to fostering an environment whereby the personal rights, lives and dignity of every member of our community matters.

Posted by University Communications, Saturday, May 30th, 2020
Bell Tower
The UNC Bell Tower on the campus of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill October 6, 2016. (Photo by Jon Gardiner/UNC-Chapel Hill)
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Pinterest
Share via Email
Print Friendly
Like so many of you, we have seen the recent events in Minneapolis where George Floyd, an unarmed Black man, died while in the custody of police officers. We denounce the actions of the police officers and support the decision to hold those responsible accountable.

This incident comes on the heels of similar acts of violence against Black people across the country. As we struggle to comprehend these events, we share your sadness, grief and frustration, and recognize the pain the recurrence of such senseless acts of violence and racism causes for so many members of our community. We add our voices to those calling for transparency and accountability.  

We are committed to fostering an environment whereby the personal rights, lives and dignity of every member of our university community matters. The events of this week underscore the important work of our Campus Safety Commission,and we are grateful for their continued efforts and collaborations with campus leadership.   

As we build our community together, even while many of us are apart, we hope that we all take some time to check in on each other. Next week, the University Office for Diversity and Inclusion, which seeks to unite our Carolina community and foster a sense of belonging and safety for all, will offer a space on its website for #YourVoiceMatters, where you may share your thoughts, perspectives and feelings anonymously. We hope you will participate.  

We recognize the stress these events cause members of our community, especially the Black community, and encourage anyone needing help to utilize the following  available resources. For students, you can contact the Office of the Dean of Students or Counseling and Psychological Services.  The Employee Assistance Program is available for faculty and staff.  

In solidarity and with unwavering resolve, 

Kevin M. Guskiewicz
Chancellor  

Robert A. Blouin
Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost 

Sibby Anderson Thompkins 
Special Assistant to the Chancellor and Provost
Interim Chief Diversity Officer 

George Battle
Vice Chancellor for Institutional Integrity and Risk Management 

David Perry
Associate Vice Chancellor and Chief of UNC Police 
Saturday, May 30, 2020
Dear Niner Nation,

Like so many of you and others around the nation, I was heartbroken by George Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on Monday night and the horrifying video of his final moments. The recent killings of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery are further examples of the systemic racial injustice that continues to plague our country.

I want to acknowledge the pain, trauma, and frustration that many of our students, faculty, and staff are feeling. These events have a powerful and personal impact on members of our community. Last night in Charlotte, we witnessed the community's unrest in response to the death of George Floyd as many people organized in protest of the ongoing racism against the Black community. 

I join with others to ask: What can I do? What can we do as a University that is committed to creating an equitable and safe environment for our students, faculty, and staff in one of the most diverse and vibrant urban cities in America?

As a community of educators and scholars, we hold a special responsibility to raise our voices to condemn the violence against Black people, other people of color, and other historically marginalized identities. It is up to us to lead, modeling civility, respect, and holding true to the values of diversity and inclusion that ensure all members of our community will thrive. At UNC Charlotte, I want us to question why incidents such as these occur, and what role we can play in creating an equitable and just world. We cannot accept apathy or indifference or silence; otherwise, we allow hatred, prejudice, and intolerance to grow.

One of the many special qualities of Niner Nation is the rich diversity of our community, feedback we consistently hear from students about why they love this University. For our African-American students, faculty, and staff, know that your Niner Nation family is here to support you. We always want to ensure that everyone feels welcome on campus, and that we are consistently providing a safe and inclusive environment.

If you need support during this time, please do not hesitate to reach out to the resources available to you. 

Counseling services are available to faculty and staff through the Employee Assistance Program and to students through the Christine F. Price Center for Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). These services will continue throughout the summer. Our Office of Identity, Equity and Engagement staff members are also available to support members of our community.  

The Counseling and Psychological Services Center is hosting a student-centered Healing and Empowerment Gathering on WebEx to develop self-care, coping strategies, and connection for Black students who have been impacted by racial injustice from 2 p.m. - 3:30 p.m., Thursday, June 4. You may register here. 

Unfortunately, as we know all too well, racism and bigotry will not end overnight. But we will never create a community and world where everyone is equally valued and protected unless we speak out, show up, and advocate for the rights of all.

Sincerely,

Chancellor Philip L. Dubois
Philip L. Dubois
Chancellor
We Must Stand Together – An Official Notice from the President
Monday, June 1, 2020

Dear UNT faculty and staff,

We are all deeply disturbed and saddened by the tragic events that led to the murder of George Floyd. Once again, we ask why an unarmed black man was killed by a police officer while colleagues looked on without intervening. People of color and white allies everywhere in our country have shown their shock and outrage through protests, and the collective rage people feel has led to more violent actions while we wait for answers. But no answers have been given. 

Thoughtful people everywhere want to see justice and racial equity, and we all hope and pray for an end to the bitter institutional racism to which we all bear witness. While there have been cries of condemnation for these horrific events, there has not been a cohesive national dialogue, and I fear the violent reactions we see are creating yet deeper divides. 

For some of our community members, these events feel all too familiar and there is concern that this could happen to them. Here in Denton, and at UNT, we are not immune to the challenges that the Black Community and law enforcement are facing. A former Black student was stopped at night last week by our campus police for not having a safety light on his bike. After our police confirmed that he had an outstanding warrant, this young man attempted to flee and was arrested after a brief struggle. This is an all too common scene in modern America and calls for all of us to do better as we negotiate the nexus of law enforcement and fear. 

In the fog of peaceful protests and with cities in flames, most of us are isolated from our normal campus connections and, lacking normal dialogue, we respond by listening to emotionally charged and often inaccurate social media. We take sides, and it becomes so easy to "like"or comment in ways that dehumanize those whose views don't match our own.

Before the COVID-19 crisis, we started to take a harder look at our culture, and the impact of discrimination and racism on our campus. That dialogue, and the healthy response to becoming a more intentionally inclusive campus, largely stopped as we took on yet another crisis. Today, I am calling on everyone in our community to show our caring and compassionate values. It is a time to come together – to listen – and to have the difficult and uncomfortable conversations we need to become the inclusive and caring community we aspire to be.

This week, I am inviting our community to rekindle these discussions. Our university will host two Black Lives Matter President's Virtual Town Halls with the first one set for students from 2 to 3:30 p.m. Friday, June 5. The second one is for faculty and staff and will be hosted from 2 to 3:30 p.m. Monday, June 8. The discussions will be framed around the three questions: How are we feeling? How does this relate to my experience at UNT? How can we move forward? Community members can ask questions during the event or send me questions in advance to untpresident@unt.edu.

As a higher education community, we want peace and racial justice as we continue honestly reckoning with our past. I hope you will join me and other campus leaders in this critical conversation that will help us return to campus as a stronger, more united community that celebrates our diversity, caring nature and commitment to a community where everyone feels equally valued.

Respectfully,

Neal Smatresk
UNT President
George Floyd’s tragic death cries out for justice and a recommitment to fight racism. Recalling the image of Father Hesburgh and Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. locked hand-in-hand in 1964, we pray, on this Feast of Pentecost: Come, Holy Spirit, inspire us to work for justice, solidarity and a healing of divisions." 
May 31, 2020

Ninety-nine years ago today, blood began to flow down Black Wall Street and the Tulsa Race Massacre ensued, marking one of the most tragic events in the history of our state and nation. And now, nearly a century later, we continue to live with the same violence and vitriol. The recent killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and George Floyd are stark examples of black lives lost due to senseless brutality. We know that racism in all of its forms, explicit and implicit, is never more unfair than when it leads to the needless loss of a life. To become the country we know we can be, we must honestly address the issues that underlie these societal divisions and make real, systemic change. I urge our entire OU family to lend support, advocacy, and love to the marginalized black members of our own community. Together, we are stronger.

Joseph Harroz, Jr.
President  
Recognize today’s challenges; provide comfort and care
June 1, 2020

Colleagues, 

If anything is certain in these very uncertain times, it’s that racism exists in our society.

So what does one say when it seems like there might not be anything one can do to immediately fix things? Under normal circumstances, we might hold one another or offer words of encouragement, anything to show that we care. We would be present with one another. Yet, we are denied that at this moment because of the COVID-19 pandemic.

A collection of recent events – from the newly launched investigation into the slaying of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia to the black birdwatcher in Central Park who was threatened by a white woman to the brutal killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis – have left many of us feeling hopeless, scared, and exhausted.

My request here is that we all, faculty in particular, provide extra flexibility for members of the community who are at their limit because of the ongoing inequities involving so many others. That these challenges around race are occurring in the face of the challenges we are seeing from the pandemic makes it even worse. It is OK to acknowledge our exhaustion, as the coronavirus has pushed our community hard, and we have risen to the occasion beyond what nearly anyone could have imagined.

We are exhausted, but we are resilient, and we are getting there. But the circumstances of the last few days, as well as the general climate around race and justice over the preceding years, decades, and indeed centuries brings into bright relief the continuing inequities within our society. The civil unrest around the George Floyd killing has ripped open the wounds and threatened to grind our exhaustion into despair.

What words can I offer to ameliorate these feelings? None that can authentically speak to the true feelings that only the lived experience of the individual can truly validate. Our faculty, staff, and students of color – particularly our black students – are feeling scared, angry, and they are questioning what the world is doing to address injustice.

Not enough. Never enough.

We each sit with our own thoughts at this moment. We cannot hug each other when we need it most. But what we can do is acknowledge that we are going through this together, and that we must support each other as we can. But we must also recognize that different members of the community will be suffering more than others, and we must recognize that that suffering is born from each individual’s experience and life path.

So, as we bring this term to a close, I request that all faculty recognize that students may be going through a particularly tough period that makes it difficult for them to focus on their schoolwork. As you know, we have already instituted a flexible pass/no-pass structure for all students in all courses. This should provide students with flexibility and solace as they finish out their work. However, I also ask all faculty to be very open if a student requests that they might need a little more time to finish off an assignment that is due this week and to do so without question.

Let’s also make sure we accommodate and care for each other. Our work this spring has required an unprecedented level of flexibility and generosity of spirit. I am very grateful for everyone’s hard work in making that generosity a hallmark of the UO community. Indeed, I sense that we have always felt it as one of our core principles. But now we can be assured that it is a rock upon which we will continue to mount a response to each and every challenge—and a rapidly changing world—together.

Sincerely,

Patrick Phillips
Provost and Senior Vice President
Statement on the death of George Floyd
May 30, 2020
Amy Gutmann, President

Once again our nation mourns. The tragic and senseless death of George Floyd is a vivid reminder of the inequalities and unacceptable indignities that so many of our citizens constantly endure. The events in Minneapolis this week should lead everyone to recognize how much more work our society must do to realize liberty and justice for all. As a nation we have much work to do.

While the entire Penn community weeps, and our hearts are filled with sadness for this senseless loss of life, we should remember the importance of Penn’s commitment to doing our part to create a more inclusive and mutually respectful environment and society free from discrimination and deprivation.

I especially want Penn’s African American students, faculty, and staff to know how much they and their contributions to our community are treasured. It is particularly important at this difficult time that Penn’s students of color know their University supports them, which we unequivocally do. While we may be apart physically at this point in time, we are truly together in spirit.

We all long for the day when we never again bear witness to such a needless death. Our prayers are for the Floyd family, and for a healing of our nation’s soul. Let all of us in the Penn community use this moment to recommit, from the deepest corners of our hearts, to creating a living and learning environment that is truly safe and welcoming for all.
Statement on Racial Injustice and the Death of George Floyd
June 2, 2020
Dear Members of the University Community: 

It is impossible to forget the image of George Floyd, gasping for air as a police officer who is sworn to protect and defend calmly kneels on his neck until he dies. It is both a shocking scene of violence that should never happen and a potent reminder that it continues to happen all the time.

The painful truth is that persistent and systemic racism continues to fuel a deep injustice toward African Americans. The familiarity of this tragedy has ignited widespread protests and demonstrations—not only across our country, but across the globe.

We are outraged because it is outrageous. How many times must we witness these blatant examples of injustice, hatred, brutality and discrimination before we resolve to change things?  

This is a time for demonstrating solidarity with our African American community. To the University of Pittsburgh’s African American students, faculty, staff and alumni: We stand with you in demanding better and are committed to working with you to make meaningful changes.    

Unfortunately, grief and anger are emotions too easily exploited. Some are happy to create confusion, sow conflict and incite violence and ultimately erode our fundamental rights to peaceably gather and demand real change. This, too, is a painfully familiar pattern. Against a rising toll of injury, death and recrimination, we stand to lose our solidarity—replacing it with ever-deepening divisions.  

Do we have to go down this road?

In this moment of raw grief and anger, we must plot a path forward. We must find ways to build bridges, listen and empathize—even when it is uncomfortable. And we must demand better of our leaders, holding them accountable by voting and pushing to reform the laws and institutions of our democracy. Working together, we have enormous power to realize change.

But this is also a time to turn the lens inward and consider our institution’s own role in perpetuating unfair structures and systems. A university is not an ivory tower but an extension of society—a place dedicated to advancing knowledge for everyone’s gain. Racism degrades our pursuit of true equality, liberty and justice, and it undermines our ability to create opportunity through teaching, research and service. Our university must become a better, more equitable place, and we can do more.

These local efforts may seem like small acts in the face of a national civil crisis, but they can catalyze powerful change. The University of Pittsburgh is a longstanding leader in our region. Yet, for all of our remarkable accomplishments, African Americans living within the Cathedral of Learning’s shadow are still confronting an alarming opportunity gap. We can expand our efforts to translate our work into practice and spur a local renaissance in our surrounding neighborhoods and communities.

Reshaping our university to be more diverse, inclusive and just—while also expanding our reach and impact in promoting social justice—is a significant effort, and we will need to resource and sustain this transformation over time. Because of this, I am putting our nearly complete strategic planning process—which aims to chart Pitt’s course over the next five years—on hold. This pause will give us time to incorporate specific strategies to strengthen our commitments to racial equity and justice. I will need your help in identifying the most promising initiatives in this final plan, and I hope you will participate.  

To jumpstart this work, we are scheduling and planning a number of opportunities to convene virtually so that we can share ideas, experiences and expertise related to eliminating racism and injustice near and far. In the days ahead, we must continue to stand in solidarity as we work to forge a better, more equitable future for all.  

Respectfully, 

Patrick Gallagher
Black Lives Matter: A GSO Perspective
Aerial view of the URI Narragansett Bay Campus
June 4, 2020
A statement from URI Graduate School of Oceanography Dean Bruce Corliss.
I am writing to follow up my statement last week in On the Waterfront should you not have had the opportunity to read it. The senseless death of George Floyd has created despair and anger across the country and, as the URI Senior Leadership Team stated in a recent email, is a reminder of the oppression and injustice still too prevalent in our society. The Graduate School of Oceanography and the University of Rhode Island are committed to a more just and equitable society and university community. I write to re-confirm that commitment to promote and respect diversity and justice for all within our campus and within the nation as we struggle to address systemic problems within our society and across the country.

The death of George Floyd and long-standing anti-black racism, together with a lack of progress to address the roots of these crimes, have led to frustration and anger generated by police brutality, racial injustice and a culture among some that condones violence. This anger is also based on societal and structural racism that has pervaded the fabric of America. Societal racism includes inequalities in income/wealth distribution, availability of health care and affordable health insurance, and educational opportunities, and is perpetuated not only by individuals and institutions, but by lawmakers passing legislation that precludes or limits opportunity to minority communities and, in particular, to Black Americans. Politics matter. These societal and financial inequities have existed for a very long time, and the lack of progress to address these inequities is at the core of the problem that the country faces today.

GSO has actively made efforts to attract minority faculty and students in general, and specifically African Americans, to join GSO and will continue to do so. In addition, professional societies have fostered and reinforced the need to increase underrepresented minorities in the sciences, and in particular Black Americans. But, clearly we as an institution and a discipline must hold ourselves accountable and do better. It is time to reflect upon and then redouble our efforts to ensure that current and prospective faculty, students and staff of color feel that they belong and are supported.

The GSO faculty voted last year to remove the GRE test requirement in graduate applications, as this has been shown to be a bias against minority students. This year a NOAA proposal was submitted to recruit and provide support to summer students from the University of Maryland Eastern Shore, a Historically Black College and University (HBCU), as part of our CINAR effort, an effort that follows a commitment we made last year when we submitted the Cooperative Institute proposal. We also reached out this year to another HBCU institution, Elizabeth City University in North Carolina, to inquire about their possible interest in joining the East Coast Oceanographic Consortium with the goal of developing a pipeline of underrepresented students at GSO and other ECOC institutions. In an effort to increase the diversity of future oceanographers, GSO’s NSF-REU program (SURFO) is committed to recruiting students from underrepresented groups. Recruiting at HBCUs and Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs), attending conferences focused on scientists from underrepresented groups (SACNAS) and forming a partnership with the Puerto Rico Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation have begun to effect change. Last summer, half of our SURFO student participants were from underrepresented groups. We look forward to next week when a new cohort begins, with almost half the young scientists from underrepresented groups. 

These efforts do not address the inequities and injustices that presently exist with structural racism in America, but are examples of our commitment to recruit and welcome Black students, students of color and other minorities to oceanography with the goal of promoting equity within the science community.

This is the time to address questions of inequity, justice and the rights of all individuals in our society. It is a time for reflection and for discussion, but it is also a time to develop and execute plans to address these issues. Recognizing that the scarcity of Black oceanographers is a result of an unjust K-12 educational system, a key goal of GSO’s outreach efforts is to prioritize access for underrepresented communities to ocean science. GSO will continue to spark partnerships with under-resourced schools throughout Rhode Island and minority serving institutions across the country. We are emboldened to strengthen these efforts.

As part of that effort, GSO will help make meaningful partnerships with minority serving institutions within the East Coast Oceanographic Consortium to develop opportunities for Black and minority students. This summer, we will also share on the GSO website opportunities for discussion on systemic racism offered by the URI’s Office of Community, Equity and Diversity.

There have been many thoughtful statements across the country that address recent disturbing racist acts and the need to confront racial injustice and the culture that fosters it. I would like to share one by Dr. Sudip S.Parikh, CEO of the AAAS, that is an insightful statement about the need to come together in the science community to address the challenges that we are all facing. 

GSO is committed to moving forward in a thoughtful and meaningful way in the days and years to come. Please reach out to me and other GSO leaders if you would like to express concerns or suggestions.

Sincerely,

Bruce H. Corliss
Dean, URI Graduate School of Oceanography
The University of Rochester
Search Rochester.edu
Office of the President
About Sarah Mangelsdorf Messages Contact Us Past Presidents Inauguration 
 BACK TO SARAH C. MANGELSDORF MESSAGES
Flying the University Flag at Half-staff to Honor George Floyd
JUNE 4, 2020
The past months have been challenging for all of us, and the last few weeks especially have laid bare the challenges that we as a society and as a University are facing with respect to the blight of systemic racism and racial injustice. The leadership of this institution is committed to candid conversations, to listening, and to real and effective action to address the concerns of our black students, faculty, staff, and alumni and their allies. And we recognize that this must be a shared commitment. We will be sending a broader message on this essential topic shortly.

Today, we are flying the University of Rochester flag on the Eastman Quadrangle and at the Medical Center at half-staff to commemorate today’s memorial service for George Floyd and as a step to demonstrating our public commitment to anti-racism in every area of this institution. We are all feeling the anguish of injustice today. I stand with you in sorrow and anger, and look forward to joining with you in doing the work that must be done.

Sincerely,

Sarah C. Mangelsdorf
President

FOR: StudentsParents & FamiliesFacultyStaffAlumniLocal Community
Text Only Contact Us Newscenter Calendar Futurity
River Campus (mailing address): 500 Joseph C. Wilson Blvd., Rochester, NY 14627

River Campus (GPS/maps): 252 Elmwood Ave., Rochester, NY

Medical Center: 601 Elmwood Ave., Rochester, NY 14642

Eastman School: 26 Gibbs St., Rochester, NY 14604

Maps & Directions

FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagramLinkedInTumblrFuturityMore social
EMERGENCY COPYRIGHT ACCESSIBILITY NONDISCRIMINATION & TITLE IX© University of Rochester 1996-2020
A MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT BOB CASLEN
May 31, 2020

With heavy hearts, we mourn the horrific killing of George Floyd at the hands of a police officer while three other officers stood by in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Our thoughts go out to Floyd's family and to the families of all those who have been the victims of violent murders fueled by racism and hatred in our country. These events are a stark reminder of the dark divisions that continue to run through our society, the legacy of a dark past that we have not yet fully reconciled. We must acknowledge these divisions and commit to becoming a more just and equitable society.

We stand in solidarity with the African American community, as these events have only compounded the sense of grief, fear, and loss brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. Here as well, we are reminded of the systemic biases that shape our realities. It is our collective responsibility to challenge these institutional inequities and to demand better for ourselves and for future generations.

As Gamecocks, let us be leaders in these efforts. Our Carolinian Creed calls on us to respect the dignity of all persons, to respect the rights and property of others, to discourage bigotry, while striving to learn from differences in people, ideas, and opinions. Violence and hateful rhetoric are not reflective of these values. If we are to begin the process of healing the wounds of racism, hate and bigotry that have brought us to this current tipping point, we must engage one another in thoughtful dialogue about our individual and collective experiences. We must do the work of educating ourselves about the harmful impact of racism and discrimination in all of its manifestations.

Anti-discrimination and anti-harassment training are currently provided to UofSC faculty and staff and required of all students who are new to the Columbia campus. And multiple units are engaged in advancing diversity and inclusion initiatives across our campus. However, given this pivotal moment in which we find ourselves, we will intensify these efforts to ensure that we are equipping our students, faculty and staff with the tools needed to effectively navigate the current tensions in our society. To this end, we are assembling a team to work on the implementation of a new diversity module that will be required of all UofSC freshmen as part of their orientation process beginning in the 2020-2021 academic year. And we will amplify the training available to all students, faculty and staff to ensure that we have the resources needed to foster a campus culture that is reflective of our Creed.

In his 1963 "Letter from a Birmingham Jail,"Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. acknowledged the "interrelatedness of all communities and states,"noting that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny."Let us turn our anger into action, demanding justice where there is injustice, peace where there is violence, and love where there is hate. Let the suffocation of this moment be the impetus for change.

Campus Resources:

To report incidents of bias or hate, submit a Bias and Hate Incident Form

UofSC Counseling & Psychiatry: 803-777-5223 

UofSC Police Department: 803-777-4215

 

Tracey L. Weldon
Interim Chief Diversity Officer, Office of the Provost
Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences

Bob Caslen
President                                                                               
Message from USF President Steven C. Currall
MAY 30, 2020UNIVERSITY NEWS
To Members of the USF Community:

I believe I speak for the entire University of South Florida community when I express our deep sadness over recent events in Minneapolis and around the country. The deaths of two black men, George Floyd in Minneapolis and Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, should prompt us to pause and think about how racism impacts all of our lives.

Although neither of those individuals were affiliated with the University of South Florida, events such as this have a powerful impact on people of every background and in every community.  The impact is magnified in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has so badly shaken us all.

As we work to help each other understand what has happened -- if we can ever truly understand -- I find myself reflecting on the Principles of Community we aspire to at USF;  to treat each other with respect and dignity, refrain from displays of inappropriate anger or intimidating conduct, shun epithets or abusive language, find effective means to disagree, and to persuade and to inform through dialogue.

For our students, faculty and staff, I want to remind them of the resources available through the university’s Office of Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the USF Counseling Center. I urge you to seek out their support.

I believe we must support and care for each other during times like these and not forget that each of us is empowered to stand up to injustice whenever and wherever it occurs.

Thank you.

Steve Currall

Steven C. Currall, Ph.D.
President and Professor
University of South Florida
Note to Community from President Folt
May 31, 2020

Dear Trojan Community,

I write today, hoping you and your families are well and safe, yet knowing that many of you are not; your hearts are aching, and you are searching for answers, actions, and hope. The horrific deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and so many others, together with the demonstrations and unrest sweeping our nation are tearing at us all.  

These violent acts come at a time when our world has already been profoundly disrupted by COVID-19. And many of those hit the hardest are people of color, particularly African Americans – the very same people in communities already burdened by a history of prejudice, poverty, and especially racism.  

Many of you have told me that you are feeling sad, angry, desperate and despairing as you face such grave injustices and the escalation of tensions, and you are trying to find a way forward.

It weighs heavily on all of us. But we are Trojans, united as a university dedicated to the fundamental principles of equality and inclusion, education, and discovery for the good of humanity. We can make a positive difference, as we have for more than 100 years.

I don’t have the answers today, but we will continue to seek them together. I know that we can effect change – in our community, our city, and our nation. Now, more than ever, we need to rely on each other and help each other and our neighbors through these times. We are a community strengthened by the diversity that you bring – we are the students who want to change the world, the faculty dedicated to inspiring young leaders, the staff who keep the university running, the healthcare workers on the front lines, the social workers, the business leaders, the community organizers, the creators, entrepreneurs, teachers, and scholars our nation needs, and so much more. We must be there to support our communities. And, we know we can.

This moment is our call to action. It will be challenging to confront directly issues like racism in our community, but we must. We have started discussions with our student, faculty, staff, and alumni organizations, our civic leaders and our neighbors in the community. We recognize the need for continued conversations around policing, and our chief of the USC Department of Public Safety will be partnering with our campus and broader community to find collective answers to persistent inequities. We will engage you to break down silos that separate us, encourage thoughtful debate, and protect the dignity of every individual in our community. Together, we will stand for justice and embrace a culture of respect for all.

With respect and admiration,

Carol L. Folt
President

Adobe PDF version
His Name is George Floyd
May 30, 2020
We will step forward and show the world what kindness, equity, and inclusion for all people can look like

George Floyd. His name is George Floyd and he should be alive today. Sadly, the list of black people in America subjected to violence is long and getting longer. We grieve for their moms, dads, spouses, sons, daughters, brothers, sisters, grandparents whose loss is unimaginable. We grieve for their friends and neighbors and their community. I condemn brutality in all its forms, but it is most egregious in the hands of those who have taken an oath to protect.

My heart aches for so many as senseless acts of racism and violence continue. The pain and fear are evident in the protests, media, and conversations. The pain and fear are real for so many members of our campus community. We should all be angry, and for many anger has been replaced with exhaustion.

We must do better. Vol is a Verb, and action is important. We will continue the hard work to create a campus where everyone matters and belongs. Where anyone can study, work, learn, teach, jog, and live their daily life without fear. Where education becomes the great equalizer for anyone who wants it. Creating an environment for all Vols to succeed is a responsibility we all share.

Many groups have been working for weeks on making our campus safe for the return of students in the fall—safe from COVID-19. Some ask how is that in 2020 we still face the need to make sure that students, faculty, and staff are safe from racism. Black friends and colleagues have expressed to me that they are tired of having this conversation only to have it followed by another disgusting display of racism. We all need to join together to carry the torch of safety, dignity, respect, and human rights for everyone. We will do both of these things—plan for a fall safe from the coronavirus, and also plan for a future at this university where everyone feels safe and respected, where we have achieved our goals of being a place where everyone matters and belongs.

I will be convening members of our campus—students, faculty, staff, UTPD—in a conversation about how we pull together, support one another, and create the campus we want to have. I will work in partnership with student, faculty, and staff representatives to listen, learn, and take action. At a time when we are separated by distance, it is more important than ever to be united in commitment and support for one another. Take time to check on your friends and colleagues who might be having a difficult time. They are in pain and they need to know we are here for them.

Volunteers step forward in leadership and service. We will step forward and show the world what kindness, equity, and inclusion for all people can look like.

Donde Plowman signature

 

 

Donde Plowman
Chancellor
Dear UTA Community,

I am writing with a shared sense of shock, fear, outrage and sadness as we reflect upon the senseless killing of George Floyd as well as recent incidents of hatred, inequality and ensuing violence. This touches me deeply as it brings back scarred memories of years of racism and bullying I endured during my youth simply because of my ethnicity. I am forever grateful to my adopted country that has allowed me to heal my wounds and pursue my dreams.

Now, more than ever, it is time that we renew our own commitment to and uphold the values set forth in UTA's Principles of Community. The basis for our UTA Community is mutual respect "…members of our community build trust by finding ways to communicate with one another respectfully. With civil discourse, our other principles will follow. Therefore, we will listen, not just to hear, but to try and understand."

Our nation and our society face tremendous challenges in overcoming racism, discrimination and injustice. As scholars and students, teachers and mentors, I believe each of us at UTA has our own role in making a difference, changing all that is broken and accentuating the good I personally have experienced.

As Dr. Martin Luther King stated, "One of the great liabilities of history is that all too many people fail to remain awake through great periods of social change…Today, our very survival depends on our ability to stay awake, to adjust to new ideas, to remain vigilant and to face the challenge of change."

Let us commit ourselves to act with fairness, justice and mutual respect for all.

Sincerely yours,

Teik C. Lim, Ph.D.

President ad interim

#UTAUnited
Turbulent and Difficult Times
June 1, 2020

Dear UT Community, 

This isn't the first letter I'd planned to write as interim President of The University of Texas at Austin. I had a series of welcome messages set to go out today. But they didn't anticipate or acknowledge the events of the past few days and the pain those events have caused for so many — so I had to start over. 

Today's transition comes during a turbulent and difficult time. We are experiencing widespread outrage, anger, sadness and reflection here in Austin, throughout Texas and across our country. The senseless killing of George Floyd and the ensuing protests have gripped the nation. As I watch these events unfold, I feel for those who are in pain and am acutely aware that we must continue our struggle for meaningful and enduring change to overcome acts of racism and violence that corrode our community.

These challenges come as we are already responding to the COVID-19 crisis, which has become so much more than a life-threatening disease. It has paused or disrupted many of the core elements of our daily lives, forcing students to adjust to learning remotely and a different market for internships and jobs; requiring faculty and staff members to work in new, less comfortable ways; threatening many individuals' ability to keep their jobs and earn a living; and impacting our health care and education systems.

As we navigate these difficult times, I am reminded of just how critical The University of Texas at Austin is for our community, state, nation and the entire world.

UT has always been a special place to me, as a student, faculty member and dean of the McCombs School of Business. Now more than ever, I see that the creation and dissemination of knowledge are the most effective antidotes for injustice, inequality and intolerance, and for the advancement and improvement of our society. And that's what we do at UT.

We say, "What starts here changes the world."Those starts and changes don't just happen. They are the result of actions — large and small, as individuals and in teams — by our students, faculty, staff and alumni.

Without question, 2020 has not been the year any of us wanted it to be. We have seen political dysfunction, a global pandemic, economic distress, racial tension — and it is only June 1. In facing these struggles and uncertainty, we need people who can think creatively, develop workable solutions and solve difficult problems. The University of Texas has always had a mandate to be a "university of the first class."Part of that mandate means that this university and the people of this community will take an active role in addressing the critical problems our society is facing.

As Longhorns, when we are tested, we don't shy away. When we are challenged, we don't fade into the background and shrink from our responsibility. We come together and draw upon the diverse range of talent, energy and passion that we have on the Forty Acres, to take on the most important and difficult issues of our time. I look forward to working with you to do that in the days and months ahead.

Sincerely yours,

Jay Hartzell
Interim President

The University of Texas at Dallas - Office of the President
May 31, 2020

Over the last few days, I have heard from concerned students and colleagues about the horrific footage of George Floyd’s killing in Minneapolis.

I have watched the outrage over this tragedy from cities around the country. I have seen the emotional outpouring as people demand change in our society, and I have personally felt great anguish watching a defenseless man die while begging for help from those who are sworn to protect us.

As one who believes in the American ideal, this week has been difficult to comprehend. I know that I am not alone in questioning how our society can move forward when too many people are denied their rights. And so terribly often, those treated the most violently have been black.

Change must occur, and each one of us must play a role in effecting this change.

As president of UT Dallas, I reinforce the values of community, diversity and tolerance we share on our campus. I stress the imperative that we must live these values daily, and I emphasize the resolve we must have to honor this commitment now and into the future.

We, at UT Dallas, recommit to providing a safe, welcoming environment to all people, regardless of race, religion, ethnic origin, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation.

Each one of us — staff, faculty and students — must take these principles into our core if we are to have any hope of effecting change in our society. I ask that we all recommit ourselves so that, as Comets, we live the values we hope become reality for all people across our nation.

Let UT Dallas be a beacon of decency to the rest of the nation.

Sincerely,

Richard C. Benson
President
Eugene McDermott Distinguished University Chair of Leadership


The University of Texas at Dallas
800 W. Campbell Rd, Richardson, Texas 75080-3021

View this in your browser.
Turbulent and Difficult Times
June 1, 2020

Dear UT Community, 

This isn't the first letter I'd planned to write as interim President of The University of Texas at Austin. I had a series of welcome messages set to go out today. But they didn't anticipate or acknowledge the events of the past few days and the pain those events have caused for so many — so I had to start over. 

Today's transition comes during a turbulent and difficult time. We are experiencing widespread outrage, anger, sadness and reflection here in Austin, throughout Texas and across our country. The senseless killing of George Floyd and the ensuing protests have gripped the nation. As I watch these events unfold, I feel for those who are in pain and am acutely aware that we must continue our struggle for meaningful and enduring change to overcome acts of racism and violence that corrode our community.

These challenges come as we are already responding to the COVID-19 crisis, which has become so much more than a life-threatening disease. It has paused or disrupted many of the core elements of our daily lives, forcing students to adjust to learning remotely and a different market for internships and jobs; requiring faculty and staff members to work in new, less comfortable ways; threatening many individuals' ability to keep their jobs and earn a living; and impacting our health care and education systems.

As we navigate these difficult times, I am reminded of just how critical The University of Texas at Austin is for our community, state, nation and the entire world.

UT has always been a special place to me, as a student, faculty member and dean of the McCombs School of Business. Now more than ever, I see that the creation and dissemination of knowledge are the most effective antidotes for injustice, inequality and intolerance, and for the advancement and improvement of our society. And that's what we do at UT.

We say, "What starts here changes the world."Those starts and changes don't just happen. They are the result of actions — large and small, as individuals and in teams — by our students, faculty, staff and alumni.

Without question, 2020 has not been the year any of us wanted it to be. We have seen political dysfunction, a global pandemic, economic distress, racial tension — and it is only June 1. In facing these struggles and uncertainty, we need people who can think creatively, develop workable solutions and solve difficult problems. The University of Texas has always had a mandate to be a "university of the first class."Part of that mandate means that this university and the people of this community will take an active role in addressing the critical problems our society is facing.

As Longhorns, when we are tested, we don't shy away. When we are challenged, we don't fade into the background and shrink from our responsibility. We come together and draw upon the diverse range of talent, energy and passion that we have on the Forty Acres, to take on the most important and difficult issues of our time. I look forward to working with you to do that in the days and months ahead.

Sincerely yours,

Jay Hartzell
Interim President
President Eighmy addresses UTSA on standing together for social justice
President Eighmy addresses UTSA on standing together for social justice
JUNE 2, 2020 — Editor’s note: The following message was sent via email today from President Taylor Eighmy to all students, faculty and staff:

The recent incidents of racism, violence and killing of Black citizens in our country are a stark reminder of how we must rid deeply rooted bigotry and injustices from our society. I am horrified by these senseless killings and—as I said in my statement over the weekend—I find myself feeling deeply frustrated by the lack of progress made by our country since civil rights activists fought for equal rights 56 years ago. The impact of COVID-19 on communities of color is yet another heart-wrenching example of the reality of ongoing national systemic inequities.

We cannot let the deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor go unnoticed or unaddressed. Nor can we ignore the countless other Black people and other people of color who have lost their lives to senseless acts of violence. We must call out and condemn these racist acts, stand together in the fight for justice, speak out and enact change. On behalf of UTSA’s entire leadership team I want to convey to Black students, faculty and staff in the Roadrunner community that we see you and we will continue to fight alongside you. Black Lives Matter.

I believe public research universities have a responsibility to be at the forefront of change for our country. I believe we can serve as models for diversity, equity and inclusion. I believe we are all born with the same potential—but not given the same opportunities. I believe education is a great equalizer and has the power to change lives and create a more just and equitable society. I believe we have an obligation to ensure that Black students and other underrepresented students feel welcome in our inclusive community, experience a powerful educational journey and graduate prepared to change the world.

We have our own work to do to be exemplary in building an environment of inclusive excellence on our campus. Much work has been done on this front in the past year and much more is planned, including upcoming training sessions in August on addressing racial bias, anti-racist efforts and microagressions. We recognize the need for continued conversations around policing, building on Fair and Impartial Policing training implemented by our UTSA PD last year. I hold myself—and UTSA’s entire leadership team—accountable for continuing to move beyond acknowledging the issues and to provide spaces for our community to fight for justice in effective ways.

Tomorrow’s community gathering, hosted by the Multicultural Student Center for Equity and Justice, is an opportunity to support our grieving and angry community. For any of you who may need additional support, please reach out:

For students, UTSA Counseling and Mental Health Services offers same-day or next-day phone and video counseling sessions.
For faculty and staff, counseling services are available through the Employee Assistance Program.
I encourage all of you—the entire Roadrunner community—to take time to process, take care of one another and take action to move our nation forward.


Diversity and Inclusion: Recognizing our Shortcomings, Working to Improve
Over the past few days, we were made aware of social media comments made by a few students that are racist, offensive and harmful to our community. We are appalled and disheartened that any member of the NC State community would choose to make such abhorrent statements.

To say the words and actions in those posts stand in complete opposition to NC State’s values is an understatement.

As a public institution, NC State is bound by privacy laws such that we cannot share information about individual students or the specifics of investigations. We know that many will not be satisfied with this response, but please know these incidents are being addressed.

At this challenging time across our nation, and in our own community, we want to be clear where NC State leadership stands: We stand against and condemn white supremacy, racial injustice and all forms of racism and discrimination. NC State’s Black students, faculty and staff deserve a campus culture where they feel safe, supported, respected and valued. We are committed to doing all we can to protect, promote and advance diversity, equity and inclusion at NC State.

These incidents remind us that we fall far short of where we aim to be. We need to do more and do better. As a Wolfpack, we must remain united and committed – every one of us must actively contribute to help ensure a more diverse and inclusive environment. And, we need to be innovative and try new ideas and approaches to embrace and advance diversity and inclusion.

We may not get it right every time, but we are committed to listening to the voices and lived experiences of those impacted and challenging ourselves to do the work necessary to build a more just and equitable NC State.

As one first step, in the coming academic year, we will require every student, faculty and staff member to complete diversity and inclusion learning modules. This will include every member of Cabinet as well as all of the deans, directors and department heads of the university.

As another step, we are assembling an interdisciplinary team to evaluate NC State’s policies, examine every opportunity to strengthen them against racism and discriminatory behavior, and modify, where allowed by law, to bolster our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion.

When students return in the fall, we commit to working with them to collaboratively review NC State’s Code of Student Conduct and examine opportunities for improving and strengthening the code, where allowed by law. We will also work with students to review, update and improve our university’s statement of values. When complete, we will expect every student at NC State to uphold these values that define the inclusive and supportive culture that we seek for our community.

Additionally, when students, faculty and staff return to campus, we want to move to a place of dialogue and partnership to have difficult but necessary conversations, better gauge what is needed, what is possible, and working together, what we’re going to do about it. We are working on a plan to facilitate those discussions.

These are not the last things we will do, and they are not nearly enough to overcome the many challenges related to actively addressing both the individual acts of racism and the system of racism to foster belonging for all. But they are a few next steps, and we are fully committed to doing more to keep moving forward.

We are a university that is about transforming lives and making the world a better place. This mission is more important today than ever before. We have much work yet to do, work that will require humility, empathy, resilience, hope and engagement. We remain committed to striving today and every day to ensure a university climate that embraces, values and advances a diverse, inclusive and supportive campus culture.

W. Randolph Woodson | Chancellor
Warwick Arden | Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost
Charles Maimone | Vice Chancellor for Finance and Administration
Brad Bohlander |Chief Communications Officer, Associate Vice Chancellor of University Communications
Boo Corrigan | Director of Athletics
Marc I. Hoit | Vice Chancellor for Information Technology
Kevin Howell | Vice Chancellor for External Affairs, Partnerships and Economic Development
Sheri L. Schwab | Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity
Brian Sischo | Vice Chancellor for University Advancement
P.J. Teal | Secretary of the University and Assistant to the Chancellor
Mladen Vouk | Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation
Marie Williams | Associate Vice Chancellor for Human Resources
Lisa Zapata | Interim Vice Chancellor for the Division of Academic and Student Affairs
Message from President Cockett
May 31, 2020

USU President Noelle Cockett

Full Size
Dear USU students, faculty and staff,

The tragic death of George Floyd in Minneapolis was extremely disturbing to watch. The national protests and unrest that have followed prompt me today to publicly reaffirm Utah State University’s and my own personal commitment to inclusion and respect in our Aggie family and in those communities we reach every day.

Clearly there are many troubling, systemic issues confronting us as a nation, and I think these highly volatile moments are opportune times for us to look inside ourselves to see how we can personally help address and alleviate injustice. These are the times for our Aggie Family to join together and reflect about our commitment to USU’s Principles of Community – our institutional Aggie pledge to diversity, human dignity and social responsibility.

Please join with me today as I reassert one of my critical obligations as university president: to cultivate an environment of respectful engagement and respectful discourse at every level of our society. Thank you.

Respectfully,

Noelle E. Cockett

President, Utah State University
27
CONTACT
Tim Vitale
Associate Vice President for Strategic Communications
University Marketing and Communications
 435-797-1356
 tim.vitale@usu.edu

ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
- Aggies Think, Care, Act
TOPICS
    
Post your Comment
We welcome your comments but your submission will NOT be published online. Your comment or question will be forwarded to the appropriate person. Thank you.
Justice, Inclusion and Humanity – May 30
 June 1, 2020
TU students, faculty and staff,

This past week has brought a heightened sense of shock and sadness as we witnessed an unarmed man being deprived of his rights, his dignity and, eventually, his very breath. George Floyd’s death was captured on video and shared with a world already on edge.

Whether it’s on a Minneapolis street in 2020 or in a Tulsa elevator in 1921, the legacy of racism is deep, pervasive and intolerable.

You, the members of our university community, have a choice. You can choose to recognize bias – in yourself and others – and have the personal courage to call it out. You can be vigilant and vocal. You can be an agent for positive change and an advocate for those at risk of being marginalized. Although we are apart, we are not alone. We are stronger together, and we must live our commitment to justice, inclusion and humanity.

Janet K. Levit
Interim President
A Message About Grieving and Searching for Answers Together
My Dearest UVM: I write to you to share what is on my heart. I am bursting with so many emotions, I need to share. As I wipe away tears that keep forming in the corners of my eyes, know I am thinking of all of you, my UVM family. I really appreciate the calls and texts from so many of you who wanted to make sure I was okay. I am also grateful for the calls where you shared your ideas, anger, and grief with me. Like many of you, I watched in horror the video showing the death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police officers. I sobbed for George as if he was my own son or brother lying on the cold, hard concrete. I then wept for Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and Tony McDade, and soon I was crying for the many who have tragically lost their lives over the years because of racism and inequality. 


Unfortunately, the killing of black men or women by police is not new; it is so common that initially many turned to the usual responses: hashtags, T-shirts, flags, and national leaders condemning this horrific act. Still, George Floyd's homicide seems different to me and so many Blacks or African Americans. Was it the cold, hard concrete he died on, the cry for his mama as he took his last breaths, the plea from so many to help him that was ignored, or was this just the final straw? I continue to reflect on why this tragedy has become a global call for change and action. Regardless, this hurts me to the core. I am exhausted. My Black and African American family and friends are exhausted. We are sick and tired of being sick and tired.

As an African American woman who is also the University's Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, I am yearning for justice, looking for accountability, praying for solutions, and wishing we could be together to comfort one another. This crime against humanity, coupled with the impact of COVID-19 on us as a society has forever changed us. Exactly how we let these events change us, is up to us. For me, I am choosing to remain hopeful and draw upon my faith as I push away my tears, so I can see a better future. 

Despite the challenges we face and the fear we may feel, let us redouble our efforts and insist on systemic reform. I know we cannot take on everything, but we can have an impact at UVM, and in the communities where we serve that will branch out to advance critical social and cultural efforts everywhere. We must use our educational platform to share and enhance knowledge, understanding, ideas and solutions that not only address issues of prejudice and discrimination, but also transform lives for generations to come. We must endeavor to inspire professionals who will be more just, equitable, compassionate, and anti-racist.

As we grieve and search for answers together, I ask that you look after one another, in particular for those of us that are Black or African American. I ask that you condemn any behavior that diminishes the humanity of others. This vicious cycle must be broken because if not now when? The world around us seems to be exploding right now, and we all deserve better. I know I could say so much more. This will not be the last time you hear from me. This work of racial equity has been my life's work, and I need help now more than ever. I need partners. Let us collectively work together and steadfastly to confront and address generations of institutionalized racism. 

I am going to start by hosting a Teach-In to help catalyze action. In addition, I intend to create digital "Brave Spaces,"to support and lift up voices from within our University that are committed to this work. I am asking you to join me, plan with me, lead with me, and when I reach out for your help, please answer my call in both your words and your actions.

This is my single story, so please listen to others who have stories they are willing to share. Your voice matters, and no one can take that away from you unless you give it to them.

In Solidarity for Change and Peace,

Wanda
                                 
Wanda Heading-Grant
Vice President
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

PUBLISHED06-03-2020
WANDA HEADING-GRANT, VP DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCL
The University of Vermont Burlington, VT 05405 (802) 656-3131Contact UVM | Accessibility | Privacy/Terms of Use | © 2020
Dear VCU and VCU Health community,

For several days, I have watched crowds of people across the nation and here in Richmond express their anger and frustration over distressing, horrific events against African Americans in our country, including the recent killings of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Breonna Taylor in Louisville, and Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia.

What I see again and again is a very public manifestation of American history and, indeed, America’s present. It is impossible to comprehend centuries of horrifying injustice against minorities in this nation, particularly African Americans. Yet, even in 2020, your skin color still influences your social mobility and vitality even more so than where you were educated, live, or work. In America, it is still far too easy for those with privilege and prejudice to undo the hard-earned successes of others, particularly racial minorities. Individual, institutional, and structural racism is still our tragic reality.

We must do better. We must recognize and respect the dignity and humanity in each of us.

This also calls for us to remain mindful of the communities we share. The protests over the past few days on and near VCU’s Monroe Park Campus have resulted in damage to our shared community, including broken windows and doors, graffiti, damaged vehicles, and debris fires. I am grateful to our many employees who have responded quickly to make repairs and keep everyone on our campus safe to live, learn, and heal.

We will work together to fix what’s broken here. We must fix what has been broken in our communities across this nation for decades. 

Let’s commit to repairing broken systems that serve to create mistrust in government and law enforcement. Let’s resolve to make equitable and fair the distribution of justice. Let’s pledge to reconcile our own struggles between who we are and who we strive to become as individuals and as communities.

As we continue to process what is happening across our nation—especially the very public violence against African Americans and to our shared communities—the one thing that makes sense is that we can no longer afford to stand by idly. None of us is immune. We must stand to change the systems we have created. We must continue to empower and support our faculty, staff, students, alumni, and neighbors to change the world by voting, and by making equity and inclusion accessible everywhere. We must think about our shared humanity in more enlightened ways, because quite frankly, black lives must matter if we are to ever realize the potential of VCU’s shared community and the vast privileges of belonging to a global community.

Sincerely,

Michael Rao, Ph.D.

President

VCU and VCU Health System

21st-Century University, Community, To VCU
Tagged Ahmaud Arbery, Black Lives Matter, Breonna Taylor, George Floyd

Skip to main contentSkip to search
VIRGINIA TECH™HOME
Universal Access Toggle
APPLY
VISIT
GIVE

SHOP

Resources for

VIRGINIA TECH DAILY

MENU

SEARCH
Virginia Tech Daily/ Articles/ 2020/ May/ A statement from President Tim Sands and Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity Menah Pratt-Clarke
Explore
A statement from President Tim Sands and Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity Menah Pratt-Clarke
May 31, 2020

Aerial view of Virginia Tech Drillfield
Dear Hokies,

As we reflect on a tumultuous week in the United States – surpassing 100,000 in the official count of deaths ascribed to COVID-19 and the boiling over of frustration and anger over the tragic and unnecessary deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and George Floyd - we do so from the relative safety of our quiet Blacksburg homes. Jarring images and videos taken by some of our own children on the streets of Chicago and Washington, D.C., bring home the immediacy of the crisis. It saddens us to know that many in our Virginia Tech community have lost loved ones, or have been traumatized by the events of the past weeks.

Dwelling on images, dramatic events, and counts can distract from the common truths that the pandemic and race-driven murders reveal. As great as our ideals of freedom, justice, and equality may be, the reality is persistently and pervasively falling short of what we say we are all about. From the marked disparities in COVID-19 illness and death across racial, ethnic, and economic divides, to the unrelenting burden of racism, past and present, systemic and overt, we cannot continue to expect incremental change and the goodwill of the majority to solve a multigenerational problem.

So what do we do? What actions can we take? While there is a place for protests, we must do more than protest. We have an opportunity as individuals and in our own communities to construct a microcosm of the society in which we wish to live. At Virginia Tech, we have anchored that aspiration in our Principles of Community, but principles only become meaningful if they are acted upon. Our strategic plan, The Virginia Tech Difference – Advancing Beyond Boundaries, takes the principles one step further to actionable priorities and accountability. Let’s work together to ensure that Virginia Tech becomes a model for a just and equitable learning community that prepares the next generation to lead in a new and better world. Over the next few weeks, the Office for Inclusion and Diversity will be working in collaboration with diversity directors, InclusiveVT representatives, diversity committees, advocates, and allies to identify specific action steps to work for sustainable transformation. We hope you will join in those efforts to help make our world a better place for all.

In the spirit of Ut Prosim,

Tim Sands,
President
Menah Pratt-Clarke,
Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity
Those in the Virginia Tech community who need assistance or counseling support may contact:

Cook Counseling Center at 540-231-6557.
Dean of Students Office at 540-231-3787. Referral to a campus cleric may be made through this office.
Employee Assistance Program
Anthem at 855-223-9277
Aetna at 888-238-6232
Kaiser Permanente at 866-517-7042
Optima Health Vantage HMO at 866-846-2682
Hokie Wellness at 540-231-2233 (students) or 540-231-8878 (employees)
InclusiveVT at 540-231-7500
Office of Housing and Residence Life at 540-231-6205
Women’s Center at Virginia Tech at 540-231-7806
CONTACTS:
Tracy Vosburgh

540-231-5396

Mark Owczarski

540-231-5396

Top News
Article Item
Three people on a zoom call
Unfinished Conversations on Race: Education is key in combating racism, article
Article Item
Caption: Webster Santos (center) and the mitochondrial uncoupler team. Six males are smiling as they stand in front of a large window in Hahn Hall.
Virginia Tech drug researcher develops ‘fat burning’ molecule that has implications for treatment of obesity, article
Article Item
2020 President’s Award for Excellence recipients during celebration on June 4
Five employees named as recipients of the 2020 President’s Award for Excellence, article
TAGS
Beyond BoundariesCampus and CommunityInclusion and DiversityOffice of the PresidentStrategic PlanTop News
Map of Virginia with pins showing locations of Virginia Tech campuses. See All Locations link which follows provides details
Virginia Tech logo
GET DIRECTIONS  

SEE ALL LOCATIONS  

CONTACT VIRGINIA TECH  

University Status
Principles of Community
Privacy Statement
Acceptable Use
We Remember
University Libraries
Accessibility
Consumer Information
Stop Abuse
Policies
Equal Opportunity
WVTF
University Bookstore
Jobs at Virginia Tech
Strategic Plan
© 2020 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved.

Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linked In
Pintrest
YouTube
Share to Facebook
, Number of shares695
Share to Twitter
Share to LinkedIn
Share to Email
To the University community,

On Sunday, I offered some brief reflections on social media regarding the death of George Floyd. Those reflections and that medium were inadequate to the topic, which is why I am writing you today.

Let me start with the obvious but nonetheless essential. What happened to George Floyd – his callous and indifferent killing at the hands of a white police officer – was immoral and sickening. As Dean Risa Goluboff wrote recently, it might be tempting also to say it was "shocking,"but that wrongly suggests it was surprising. The recent and senseless deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and so many others before them whose lives were cut short demonstrate otherwise. This sort of violence against black people, including at the hands of those who are supposed to protect all of us, is sadly all too familiar and stretches back not just decades, but centuries, through the Civil Rights Era, Jim Crow, Reconstruction, and slavery.

And let me apologize. When I wrote last weekend, I felt deep despair. Despair for the treatment experienced by so many people of color in this country – not just by police, but by every segment of society, including higher education, including here at UVA. Despair for the current state of our country, which seems to be unraveling before our eyes. Despair for the continued racial inequities across a wide range of contexts – education, criminal justice, health care, housing, jobs – that are still there, as is the systemic racism that underlies those inequities.

But in my own despair, in indulging in it, I failed to express the genuine sorrow I feel for the unequal and unfair burden that I know our black students, faculty, and staff carry with them, not just through this episode, but through every day. George Floyd's death is just another sharp reminder that far too many people of color in this country live a life that is less secure – less safe – than white people, in part because of encounters with police officers who inflicted harm on people they were meant to protect. As a white parent of four kids, I have not had to have the conversation that so many black parents have had with theirs, cautioning them about how to behave around those who are meant to protect all of us. For all of that, I am truly sorry – both for that burden and for failing to acknowledge it.

And I know it's time to act and not simply to despair or rest on faith. Over the weekend, the Division for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at UVA posted a powerful statement from a group of faculty, staff, and community members reflecting on the latest tragedies. In it, they wrote:

We must continue to do the hard work that will help ensure that our future is different, more just, more accepting, and more inclusive. The future we envision is one in which the devaluing of life is no longer accepted, and where bigotry no longer contaminates our systems and institutions, burdening some community members much more than others.

I couldn't agree more, and I am committed to that work. It's in many ways why I came (back) here.

Through the hard work of many students, faculty, and staff – not to mention the persistent advocacy of alumni and community members – UVA is a better place today than it was a decade ago, or the decade before that. But there is more work to do in order for UVA to look more like the state and country in which we live; in order for UVA to be a trusted neighbor to the Charlottesville region; and in order for all students, faculty, and staff to have their voices and their presence equally valued, respected, and included in their everyday lives on Grounds.

I have tried to champion some of that work in my two years as president, and some of it – like increasing student and faculty diversity and being a good neighbor to the Charlottesville region – is in our strategic plan. To complement and push that work forward, today I have asked three colleagues to lead a racial equity task force: Ian Solomon, the Dean of the Batten School of Public Policy; Kevin McDonald, our Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion; and Barbara Brown Wilson, a faculty member in the School of Architecture and the faculty director of The Equity Center. This group will convene with students, faculty, and staff to gather together the growing list of recommendations, suggestions, and demands regarding the subject of racial equity at UVA – and to solicit others – and will send me a concrete and prioritized set of recommendations about the best steps forward, including actions that can be implemented right away.

Eleven days after I returned to UVA to begin as president, I spoke at an event to mark and remember the one-year anniversary of the white supremacist march through Grounds the year before. As I said then and will say again here:

I stand here today as an ally. I am surely an imperfect one, which is to say I am human, like all of you. I will disappoint some of you for doing too much and others for doing too little, some for going too fast and others for not going fast enough. But I know in my heart where I would like to go, and that is the place where our aspirations and our realities finally intersect. I know that many of you, so many of you, would like to get there as well.

I look forward to our continued, imperfect journey together.

Best,

Jim
--
James E. Ryan
President
University of Virginia

MEDIA CONTACT
Brian Coy

btc6r@virginia.edu 434-243-2070


Trending
THIS WEEK
UVA Renames Building for Walter Ridley, First African American to Earn Doctoral Degree
UVA Renames Building for Walter Ridley, First African American to Earn Doctoral Degree MORE
UVA Intends to Start In-Person Classes in August
UVA Intends to Start In-Person Classes in August MORE
Today, Again, I Am Overwhelmed By Grief and Rage …
Today, Again, I Am Overwhelmed By Grief and Rage … MORE
Video
POPULAR ON UVA TODAY
virtual_finals_thumb.jpg
UVA Class of 2020 Virtual Celebration MORE
year_in_review_thumb.jpg
A Year We Will Never Forget: 2019-20 in Review MORE
jim_ryan_speech_thumb.jpg
‘What Will You Carry With You?' Remarks From UVA President Jim Ryan MORE

Latest Stories
VIEW ALL >
A mobile robot, designed to work in hazardous environments, has been modified to kill the virus that causes COVID-19. (Photos by Sanjay Suchak, University Communications)
RESEARCH & DISCOVERY
Mechanical Engineers Develop Coronavirus Decontamination Robot
(Photo by Kipp Teague via Creative Commons)
BUSINESS & GOVERNMENT
Students Who Lost Internships Will Help Rural Businesses in New Pa
Dear Washington University community,

To say that this has been a difficult and painful week would be an extreme understatement. Like you, I've watched with sadness and grief as events have unfolded first in Minneapolis in response to the killing of George Floyd, and then across the country as individuals and communities have taken to the streets to express their anger and frustration at the racial injustice that continues to plague our nation. The ongoing racial violence that we are witnessing against people of color is nothing short of devastating. In recent months, we have seen a rise in anti-Asian and anti-Asian-American violence, largely perpetuated by other Americans. In the last two weeks, we have seen the continuation of violence against Black Americans, both at the hands of officers of the state and private individuals. The events of the past several days reflect only the most recent in a long line of wrongs that have been inflicted upon our communities of color. 

Here in St. Louis, we are all too familiar with the refrain of those who are committed to addressing issues of inequality and racism – "No justice, no peace."Given our commitment to activism and social justice, it's no surprise that the St. Louis community has joined the call to action, and I'm heartened to see the passion that drives our friends and neighbors to make their voices heard. I also am deeply concerned for the well-being of our community and remain committed to working toward a constructive path forward in our region that tackles structural disparities and inequities.

I've spent a lot of time this weekend thinking, and engaging in conversation with other university leaders, about how we can best support our community and advance the cause of racial justice during this time – what we could say or do that would bring comfort to those who are hurting, and show solidarity with those who are taking action. Given the enormity of the issues before us, we know without question that words are not enough, and that no "statement"will begin to resolve the tremendous challenges that are still before us. And yet, there are some things that are important to say.

First, we must acknowledge those who are suffering. To our students, faculty, staff, and any other members of our community who are feeling targeted, unheard, or unsupported, we see you and are here for you. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion means more than just welcoming every person into our community. It means valuing you as individuals with your own identities, actively acknowledging that you matter, and unwaveringly supporting your right to be treated fairly and equally in every aspect of our society. We stand with you and condemn all acts of hate, aggression, or disrespect toward any racial group that may happen anywhere in our community, our region, our country, or the world. We are committed to supporting all members of our community, and we must redouble our efforts to achieve the equity that is foundational to fostering this environment.

In addition, we remain committed to making a difference. After the killing of Michael Brown in Ferguson in 2014, our Washington University community began the long process of looking inward, to see how we could create space for honest dialogue about race, ethnicity, inequality, and social justice, how we could "do better and be better."Since that time, we have taken steps as a community to become more fully engaged on these issues, and to work toward positive change. At our most recent Day of Dialogue and Action this spring, we reaffirmed our commitment to creating "intentional spaces to listen, extend empathy, celebrate, and engage in dialogue"in hopes of reflecting on our own humanity and the humanity of others. The events of this week are a painful reminder of how much work we all still have to do, as a nation and as a society.

Finally, we must take action. This includes not only supporting our community, but also doing what is at the core of our mission: leveraging our activities in support of research, teaching, and patient care to make a difference in helping to forward the cause of racial and social justice in our community, our region, and around the world. Already some of our schools have announced initiatives aimed at improving racial equity, especially focusing on racial violence. We anticipate announcing additional initiatives in the coming weeks.

The separation of our community due to the COVID-19 pandemic has placed an additional strain on our ability to come together to support, listen to, and learn from one another. We are all struggling with the disconnection from our peers, friends, and support networks, especially during this time of additional stress. But this only makes our need to create space for engagement within our community even more urgent, and we are working toward ways to do that in the days ahead. In the short-term, please stay tuned for invitations to opportunities to participate in observances and events that our leaders are currently planning. In the longer-term, we continue to listen and engage with members of our community to work toward substantive, mission-oriented action that we will take institutionally to make our city and our world beacons of opportunity for all. 

In these incredibly difficult times, I know there are no words that will be enough. But it's important for you to know that as a community, we are united in our commitment to justice and racial equity.

Sincerely,

Andrew D. Martin
Chancellor

 
Denouncing racial violence and the ugliness of historic, systemic inequality, President Kirk Schulz and the university's executive leadership pledged greater accountability in confronting racial and social justice failures.

"We must consider our own roles in maintaining systemic racism and accepting racial violence, even when it makes us uncomfortable,"a letter from the university system's executive leadership team reads. "When our actions are informed by the truth of others, we can move forward, together, courageously and realize the aspirations of racial and social justice. Only then can we begin to create an authentic space from which to proceed."

In addition to Schulz, the letter was signed by interim Provost Bryan Slinker, incoming Provost Elizabeth Chilton and all chancellors and vice presidents.

Enter search text
Search

All the UW
Current site
Skip to main content
MyUW
Calendar
Directories
Libraries
UW Medicine
Maps
UW Today
Helpful Links
Computing/IT
Workday/ISC
Husky Card
UW Bothell
UW Tacoma
UW Facebook
UW Twitter
University of WashingtonUniversity of Washington
StudentsParentsFaculty & StaffAlumni  Quick Links
UW LEADERSHIP
 
REGENTS
 
PRESIDENT
 
PROVOST
Office of the President
Home
Office of the President
Archive
Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
May 30, 2020

Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
Ana Mari Cauce

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do they see a strong, resilient, educated woman?
Do they see someone who is their ancestors' wildest dreams?
Do they see a woman who has friends and family they love?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do you only see my skin color?
Do you only see the stereotypes others created for me?
Do you only see your fear?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

My brothers and sisters are villainized for asking questions.
My brothers and sisters are detained for walking on a public street.
My brothers and sisters are killed for existing.

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

I wonder when I will be harassed for existing.
I wonder when the police will be called to my door.
I wonder when I will be the one mourned.

I'm terrified to go outside.

– Laura Cañate, MBA '18

The last few weeks and months have been a time of jarring contrasts. Community members donating masks sewn by hand to protect essential workers, while mask-free revelers flout distancing mandates at pools and beaches. Groups of armed white demonstrators march against stay-at-home orders at state capitols with impunity, while for Black Americans the simple act of walking down the street, jogging or birdwatching can be fraught with danger, and even end in death. Too many are left to wonder, as does UW MBA alumna Laura Cañate, ‘18, "when I will be the one mourned."

Many of us have seen those compelling "before and after"pandemic pictures of cityscapes around the world. The before pictures show buildings shrouded by pollution while the after pictures reveal majestic mountains or vast stretches of squalid, overcrowded houses in the background. It's like a veil has been lifted allowing us to see more clearly what was there all along.

Support and resources

SafeCampus
Bias Incident Reporting Tool

Bothell
Counseling Center
Student Diversity Center

Seattle
Counseling Center
Let's Talk
Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center

Tacoma
Counseling and Psychological Services
Center for Equity and Inclusion

Employees
CareLink

Periods of upheaval and crisis both test and reveal our character, as individuals, communities and nations. Over the last few weeks and months, I've written about the courage and creativity of so many in our community. I've never been prouder of our faculty, students and staff and I am confident that we can and will continue to learn and grow together, building toward a healthier future for all.

But first, we must seize the clarity this moment offers. Painful though it may be, we must face up to the inequities this pandemic has laid bare, and the ugliness that it has revealed. We ARE all in this together, I wear a mask not to protect me, but to protect you. And it is also unquestionably true, that we are not all on equal footing. There are class and race differences not only in who can work from home, and who must venture out, but in who has kept their job and who hasn't. While low-income and communities of color are more apt to work at jobs that require them to be there in person, these same jobs are less likely to come with health care or sick leave. These communities are more apt to be in neighborhoods characterized by overcrowding and with less access to healthy food choices and recreational activities, conditions that no doubt play a role in the fact that people of color are more apt to suffer complications and even death from COVID-19.

These structural inequities, and the institutional racism that they reflect, create and amplify the conditions that led to the appalling ugliness that we've seen in the last few days and weeks — laid bare once again by ubiquity of cellphone cameras. The post-pandemic goal should not be to go back to the way it was. We must do better. As we enter into a period where a new vigilance around hygiene and closeness will become habitual, and where we measure the consequences of our individual actions not just by their effect on our own health, but on how they might affect our family and friends, let's create a "new normal"where attention to issues of equity becomes habitual as well. In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up – or go back.

Laura, I see you, I hear you. I know the smart, strong, sensitive woman that you are. I know your pain. My brother has been murdered next to yours, leaving a hole in my heart and life that can never be filled. And to you and all Black students, faculty and staff, while I can only imagine what it's like to walk in your shoes because my light skin protects me from your terror, I can and will walk with you.

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor — say their names, see their faces, hear their cries. Weep, then act.

 

FacebookTwitterLinkedInEmailShare
CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2020!
On June 13, graduates, their families and friends will gather from around the world to join in celebrating the Class of 2020 in the University of Washington's first ever live, interactive Commencement webcast.

LEARN MORE
President's Blog 
Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
6 days ago

Empowering people with disabilities requires investment and innovation
1 week ago

Washington's universities are anything but discretionary
1 week ago

American flags on the HUB lawn
A chance to reflect and honor those who gave their lives
2 weeks ago

More
Subscribe

Email
Email

RSS
RSS

PRESIDENT'S TWITTER

INVITE THE PRESIDENT
Want President Ana Mari Cauce to attend your event? Submit a request.
University of Washington
Be boundless
Connect with us:
Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest
Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms
© 2020 University of Washington | Seattle, WA
A MESSAGE TO OUR COMMUNITY
Posted on May 31, 2020
The events happening this week in the Twin Cities, across the nation and here in Madison demonstrate the anger that members of our community feel over years of unequal treatment.  This anger demands meaningful action, particularly for those of us who are in positions of privilege.

I recognize that words condemning the tragic and inexcusable death of George Floyd are not enough. UWPD Chief Kristen Roman and her fellow Dane County chiefs are already engaged with the community to reduce trust gaps and improve safety through the Law Enforcement and Leaders of Color Collaboration. I appreciate the work that UWPD has done to ensure that its training and policies protect and serve our communities of color as effectively as they protect and serve other members of our community.

Our work extends beyond law enforcement to every facet of our institution. Although most of us cannot physically be on campus because of the coronavirus, we continue to work on creating a more inclusive and diverse community through the efforts of Diversity, Equity and Educational Achievement:admissions and recruitment:faculty/staff recruitment and retention:Student Affairs:Human Resources, our schools and colleges as well as within individual departments and units.

Each of us – particularly those of us who do not face the daily challenge of living amid inequity and injustice – must contribute to and lead the change that is needed. There are many ways to become more aware and involved. A list of resources is available on the DDEEA website.

Our campus has a long and proud tradition of helping bring about lasting change through peaceful protest. Thousands of people gathered peacefully at the Capitol Saturday afternoon. Unfortunately, a small number chose to engage in destructive acts that attacked already-struggling local businesses. I condemn this violence:it drowns out the message that needs to be heard and is likely to create backlash and more anger on all sides, rather than promote the changes that are needed.

I urge anyone participating in protests to engage in peaceful activism that drives towards systemic change. Use the power and privilege of your education to speak up, reject hate, racism and violence and use respect to build our community. Please take care for your own safety and those around you in this time of COVID-19.

Finally, I encourage those who are anxious or angry about recent national events to connect with the campus resources that are here to support you. These include the Multicultural Student Center, DDEEA, University Health Services and the Employee Assistance Office.

To our Black and Brown students, staff and faculty, I want to say unambiguously: You belong here, you are important to this campus, your lives matter and I am committed to your safety.

This is a time of unprecedented challenge but I remain steadfast in the belief that together, we can move forward toward a more just future.

POST NAVIGATION
Previous post: Planning for a safe return to campus
Dear UWM Faculty, Staff and Students,

Last Friday, I reaffirmed UWM’s commitment to supporting and protecting our diversity, equity and inclusivity. In the short time since then, we’ve seen our cities, region and nation erupt in protest in response to the killing of George Floyd by a Minneapolis Police Department officer. Voice after voice has joined together to condemn decades of institutional violence, injustice and failures in our criminal justice system. And rightly so.

Let me be clear when I express, both for myself and campus leaders, our strong and clear solidarity in support of black lives and with those who are peacefully protesting. The time for successfully transforming our society is now. We support those who are peacefully protesting and the change they will bring.

Your voices are important, and we care deeply about making positive change.

What actions are we taking now to make a difference?

We have been connecting our students, faculty, staff and others through the multicultural success coaches of the Black Student Cultural Center to ensure that safety and a sense of belonging are addressed, particularly as it relates to our African-American males.
We continue to provide resources on how to engage in both individual and facilitated discussions around racism and anti-racist education.
We continue to work with MKE Fellows, a program that focuses on African-American males before and after their entry to UWM. Contact Ray Anthony Fikes for additional information.
We continue to support our ongoing African-American Male Initiative which serves as an important recruitment and retention tool.
What action will we commit to for the near future?

Going forward and working in partnership with governance groups, we will institute mandatory anti-bias, anti-racism training for all members of the UWM family. More details on this will follow.
To set the tone for future discussions around race, we encourage all to visit the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. This resource is an integral part of our ongoing diversity, equity and inclusion framework.
Once again, let me stress our unequivocally strong stance against racism, violence and oppression. Every person who sets foot on one of our campuses has the right to feel safe, respected and valued.

We see you. You matter. We care.

Best regards,

Mark A. Mone
Chancellor
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Stand with me, stand together: Black Lives Matter
DEPARTMENT(S): 
Office of the President
June 1, 2020
The past several months have presented unprecedented challenges for our community, the nation, and the world. Events of the past week have reminded us that while we are all focused on keeping our loved ones safe and healthy, the underlying inequities within our society remain. In fact, we must acknowledge that societal inequalities are actually being exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic.

The protests of the past few days, ignited by the killing of George Floyd, but truly fueled by the continued targeting, demonization, and abuse of black people across our country, highlight legitimate anger, which I share. The uprising we're now seeing points to the significant work we still have to do as a society to confront and eliminate racism. I stand with those who are outraged at the senseless loss of black lives. I offer my support to those who deal daily with racism and other forms of discrimination. I state unequivocally that Black Lives Matter; that racism, discrimination, and bigotry violate our values as a university and that they will not be tolerated in our community. I ask each of you stand with me, with us, and for your friends, your peers, your students, your neighbors as we seek a path forward. 

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. paraphrased Massachusetts-born abolitionist minister Theodore Parker when he said "The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."That arc feels much too long these days. And we must acknowledge that it won't bend on its own. Each of us, especially those of us who are privileged, must consider how we can contribute to bending the arc toward justice, and do our part to make the universe we want to see. 

There is no perfect answer, no perfect action we can take, because these societal problems run deep and have been created and perpetuated over generations. Nonetheless, I truly believe that our community can and must do more to live our values and advance the causes of justice as we look toward the coming year. I pledge to explore that with you further as we start to come back together in the weeks and months ahead. I welcome your ideas for specific steps that WPI can take as we continue to seek to create a truly equitable community where all are treated with respect, and all can thrive. I know we can make a difference together.

This has been and remains a trying and turbulent time. Both the toll of the virus and the upheaval in the world are real. Dealing with the scale of what we are witnessing is especially challenging because we are not physically together. However, we can still lift one another up through our community. Our resources are here to provide support, including the Student Development & Counseling Center, Office of Multicultural Affairs , the Employee Assistance Program, or simply the comfort of colleagues and friends over Zoom. 

Be safe and well. Standing together we will bend the arc of the universe toward justice.

Laurie

WPI in the World
Global Impact Program
GLOBAL PROJECTS PROGRAM
About 
Let's Answer This Call of Distress
June 2, 2020

Dear Members of the UW Community,

As I am sure you are all seeing in Wyoming or wherever you may be, many communities around the nation are in turmoil in reaction to the killing of George Floyd, and to the history of racism, intolerance and bigotry and their terrible outcomes that this event signifies to people across the nation and across the world. Newspapers and television networks are showing daily what is happening in cities like Minneapolis, New York, Chicago, Washington, D.C., and elsewhere, telling a painful narrative of national upheaval that is perhaps unparalleled since the era of the civil rights movement of the 1960s.

The national reaction is widespread, and certainly not limited to cities. The small university community where I have lived the last six years, amid fields of corn and soybeans, experienced significant peaceful protests to show solidarity with brown, black and other communities. But we also experienced violence, including vandalism, looting and gunshots being fired. All three of our nearby towns of Champaign (pop. 88,000), Urbana (pop. 42,000) and Savoy (pop. 8,400) went under curfew Sunday evening for the first time that anyone I know can recall; a limited reopening of our campus was postponed; and numerous activities, even long-planned events that were to be virtual, including a board meeting I was to attend yesterday, were canceled.

This upheaval is a distress call to us all. It is a distress call that we must continue to be vigilant about the continuing racism, bigotry and intolerance that have no place in our community. It is a distress call from our friends, family and colleagues who, even if they are safe at home in this COVID-19 crisis and are not directly experiencing violence against them at this moment, feel a sympathetic nerve has been touched that causes pain very, very deep inside.

Yesterday, I had emails from two different people expressing the very personal distress they are experiencing as a result of recent events. One, from an African-American colleague, asked us to please know that black and brown people who may seem to be relatively removed from this turmoil are actually experiencing very deeply felt trauma in response to not only the recent events, but to what they signify about our society. She soldiered on and attended meetings, but in her words, "we are not OK" and need support. Another, from international Hispanic communities, urged international members of his research team to be very careful going out of their homes, or better yet, to avoid it completely. So, I ask you all to please think very deeply about these events, and especially to reach out to your friends and colleagues, and ask them how they are.  Ask them what you can do to help them.  Ask them how we together can help address the larger issues that these feelings reveal about our society. And commit to it.

Chief Diversity Officer Emily Monago wrote yesterday to our community to draw attention to these events and to reaffirm the values of the University of Wyoming, and I think it is worth repeating some of her words: "During these unprecedented times, let us remember our University of Wyoming values where racism, violence, sexual violence, antisemitism, homophobia, transphobia, sexism, ableism, national origin, and other forms of disparate treatment, injustices and inequities are denounced. Let us stay committed to our resolve to educate our campus community to interrupt, stop and eliminate inequities, injustices and violence from our society at the local, regional, national and global levels. Let us resolve to be a united community regardless of social identities or beliefs."

I want to reaffirm that the University of Wyoming does, and will continue, to uphold these values. Further, diversity and inclusion make our community strong, vital and vibrant. They are absolutely necessary for the excellence we strive for. They require a commitment from all of us, every day, to embrace our shared university values actively, not passively. And they require a commitment that we care for one another in order to create a sense of well-being across our community. I ask you all to do just this at this time in our history, and to commit with me to continue do everything in your power to ensure that our diverse university community thrives in the future. It will make us all, and the university we serve, better for it.

Sincerely,

President-Designate Edward Seidel




May 30, 2020

Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
Ana Mari Cauce

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do they see a strong, resilient, educated woman?
Do they see someone who is their ancestors' wildest dreams?
Do they see a woman who has friends and family they love?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do you only see my skin color?
Do you only see the stereotypes others created for me?
Do you only see your fear?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

My brothers and sisters are villainized for asking questions.
My brothers and sisters are detained for walking on a public street.
My brothers and sisters are killed for existing.

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

I wonder when I will be harassed for existing.
I wonder when the police will be called to my door.
I wonder when I will be the one mourned.

I'm terrified to go outside.

– Laura Cañate, MBA '18

The last few weeks and months have been a time of jarring contrasts. Community members donating masks sewn by hand to protect essential workers, while mask-free revelers flout distancing mandates at pools and beaches. Groups of armed white demonstrators march against stay-at-home orders at state capitols with impunity, while for Black Americans the simple act of walking down the street, jogging or birdwatching can be fraught with danger, and even end in death. Too many are left to wonder, as does UW MBA alumna Laura Cañate, ‘18, "when I will be the one mourned."

Many of us have seen those compelling "before and after" pandemic pictures of cityscapes around the world. The before pictures show buildings shrouded by pollution while the after pictures reveal majestic mountains or vast stretches of squalid, overcrowded houses in the background. It's like a veil has been lifted allowing us to see more clearly what was there all along.

Support and resources

SafeCampus
Bias Incident Reporting Tool

Bothell
Counseling Center
Student Diversity Center

Seattle
Counseling Center
Let's Talk
Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center

Tacoma
Counseling and Psychological Services
Center for Equity and Inclusion

Employees
CareLink

Periods of upheaval and crisis both test and reveal our character, as individuals, communities and nations. Over the last few weeks and months, I've written about the courage and creativity of so many in our community. I've never been prouder of our faculty, students and staff and I am confident that we can and will continue to learn and grow together, building toward a healthier future for all.

But first, we must seize the clarity this moment offers. Painful though it may be, we must face up to the inequities this pandemic has laid bare, and the ugliness that it has revealed. We ARE all in this together, I wear a mask not to protect me, but to protect you. And it is also unquestionably true, that we are not all on equal footing. There are class and race differences not only in who can work from home, and who must venture out, but in who has kept their job and who hasn't. While low-income and communities of color are more apt to work at jobs that require them to be there in person, these same jobs are less likely to come with health care or sick leave. These communities are more apt to be in neighborhoods characterized by overcrowding and with less access to healthy food choices and recreational activities, conditions that no doubt play a role in the fact that people of color are more apt to suffer complications and even death from COVID-19.

These structural inequities, and the institutional racism that they reflect, create and amplify the conditions that led to the appalling ugliness that we've seen in the last few days and weeks — laid bare once again by ubiquity of cellphone cameras. The post-pandemic goal should not be to go back to the way it was. We must do better. As we enter into a period where a new vigilance around hygiene and closeness will become habitual, and where we measure the consequences of our individual actions not just by their effect on our own health, but on how they might affect our family and friends, let's create a "new normal" where attention to issues of equity becomes habitual as well. In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up – or go back.

Laura, I see you, I hear you. I know the smart, strong, sensitive woman that you are. I know your pain. My brother has been murdered next to yours, leaving a hole in my heart and life that can never be filled. And to you and all Black students, faculty and staff, while I can only imagine what it's like to walk in your shoes because my light skin protects me from your terror, I can and will walk with you.

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor — say their names, see their faces, hear their cries. Weep, then act.
Dear Warrior community,

Yet again our nation is rising in anger and sorrow at another senseless death of a black man, this time due to brutality exhibited during an arrest. I wish to share my thoughts with you about this terrible tragedy.

Unfortunately, racism and the disparate impact of violence in the black community remain national issues, but we should remember that each of these incidents involves real people. George Floyd had family and friends who mourn his death, and dreams that will never be fulfilled. My heart aches for this loss, and my sympathies go out to his loved ones. No person in America — regardless of their race, creed or religion — should ever fear for their life simply because of who they are or how they look.

But the fear is real, because far too often it feels like we’re living the same nightmare. How do we deal with it? We demand better of all citizens, particularly those we trust to keep us safe. We also come together — not in violence, but in protest against violence, and in sympathy for those to whom violence has been committed. The compassionate, inclusive and community-minded ethos that defines Wayne State is one of the things I value most about this university, and we need to draw on it now.

Even though we can’t gather physically to mourn, we can still support each other through the means we have. Wayne State University will host a virtual dialogue on Wednesday, June 3, at 5 p.m. We hope you will join us using this Zoom link (Meeting ID: 831 3199 8274. Password: 598720).

Another reason I write today is to remind you that senseless deaths and mishandling of justice like those we've seen in Minneapolis and Atlanta are precisely why we take racial sensitivity training so seriously with the Wayne State University Police Department. Our officers regularly receive training on how to act in all types of situations, with all types of people. We are now taking the lead in this important training with the establishment of the headquarters of National De-escalation Training Center (NDTC) with Wayne State’s police department. The NDTC has filed for non-profit corporation status with the State of Michigan and has already begun de-escalation training of sworn Wayne State University police officers. The training offered by the NDTC has been specifically developed and designed to exceed traditional de-escalation methods, with the goal of fostering positive interactions with citizens and reducing the number of needless and tragic encounters that result in injuries and deaths to both citizens and police officers. 

Here in Detroit, a city that has been ravaged disproportionately by the coronavirus pandemic, we may feel strongly about the injustice of George Floyd’s murder. We may be tempted to believe that there have been far too many senseless deaths, and that it is vain to hope for a better world. But I urge you not to succumb to despair. As a black man, I have felt personally the sting of racism. Instead of feeling defeated by it, I have sought ways to stand up to it: by mentoring minority students, opening people’s eyes to the benefits of diversity, and devoting my career to researching and addressing health inequities around the globe. I do so because it helps others, and it gives me hope that our country will find a way to reckon with the urgent need for change in how we treat and support one another. Let’s model that change, each of us, by treating each other with love and respect.

Sincerely,





Letter from Chancellor Robinson: Racial Justice
WSSU News & Information

Dear Ram Family,

Against the backdrop of a global pandemic that is disproportionately impacting African Americans, we again find ourselves assailed with horrific images that remind us of the reality of racism in America. While the memories of Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor are still fresh, we experience the video of a white police officer kneeling on George Floyd's neck while Mr. Floyd gasps, "I can't breathe" as his life is snuffed out. We are once again reminded of James Baldwin's writing on the failure of human rights and social justice: "We have emptied oceans with homemade spoons and tore down mountains with our hands."

Black America is accustomed to institutional racism in its many facets; however, it can often seem as though our efforts to eradicate it have too little effect. While I don't condone violence as a means to an end, I do support our fellow citizens' right to peacefully protest the inequities and injustice in our society. The fury and grief that people are feeling speak to the institutionalized intolerance, discrimination, marginalization, and bigotry that have existed in this country—and our world—for centuries. 

But what must be our response to darkness? We must always move together toward the light. We must continue to say yes to life—and it is often found in terrible places like racist policies, beliefs, and practices; nevertheless, that is life. 

James Baldwin once again gives us a path forward: 

"For nothing is fixed, forever and forever and forever, it is not fixed; the earth is always shifting, the light is always changing, the sea does not cease to grind down rock. Generations do not cease to be born, and we are responsible to them because we are the only witness they have.

The sea rises, the light fails, lovers cling to each other, and children cling to us. The moment we cease to hold each other, the moment we break faith with one another, the sea engulfs us and the light goes out."

As I consider this national crisis, I am reminded of our university's rich history and its contributions to the advancement of social justice and equity in our society. Consider our motto: "Enter to Learn. Depart to Serve." Our service as members of the Ram Family can—and should—include helping to eradicate the cancer that is racism in America. As long as we keep the light shining on racism, we have a chance of eliminating it. But we have to stay vigilant, because it's always omnipresent. And we have to hold up one another. 

This journey toward a more enlightened America has been—and will continue to be—a rocky road. We must uplift one another, support one another, and advocate for one another in all spaces and places where we have a voice. We must find ways to protest peacefully, vote and run for office, and commit ourselves anew to the work we do at Winston-Salem State. Our students are the next generation of leaders; we need their energy and effort to carry the torch as we work toward peace, justice, and equality.

 Please know my heart is with you, Rams. Be safe. 

 Sincerely,

Elwood L. Robinson, Ph.D.

Tags: Chancellor
More News

Black lives matter.  We stand with those protesting the racist killing of George Floyd. Too many have been killed: Breonna Taylor, Ahmard Arbery, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice, Quanice Hayes, Aiyana Jones, Eric Garner, Stephon Clark, Sandra Bland, Kendra James, Trayvon Martin, and the list goes on. We stand with those protesting long-standing racial injustice. We are acutely aware that machine learning algorithms trained with data that embodies the racial and social injustices of today will perpetuate and amplify these injustices in the future. Already we have witnessed applications of ML in law enforcement, policing, hiring, healthcare, and education that replicate or amplify existing biases. Any technology that unintentionally or by design marginalizes, excludes, or harms Black communities is damaging and dangerous. We recognize the hard work done by fellow ML researchers to shine light on these ill-conceived applications, and call on the ML community at large to take accountability for the societal impacts and consequences that our technology has on society and the world. Women in Machine Learning (WiML) reaffirms our commitment to promoting diversity and increasing the awareness of women, particularly Black women, in machine learning. n this vein, we want to highlight some impactful groups working to support Black students, researchers, and professionals in machine learning and computer science more broadly: 
@black_in_ai @AJLUnited @BlackGirlsCode @Code2040 @Data4BlackLives @blkintechnology @NSBE If you’re looking for specific ways to support the Black Live Matter movement, check https://blacklivesmatters.carrd.co
If you are looking for information about policing in your local community, check
Campaign Zero https://joincampaignzero.org/solutions and Use of Force Project useofforceproject.org #BlackLivesMatter
Dear Wright State family,

It is not enough to say that Wright State University has an unwavering commitment to diversity and inclusion. I want to express our horror at the tragic and disturbing events that unfurled in Minneapolis this week. This is yet another painful reminder of the persistence of racial inequity and injustice in our country, and it only underscores our responsibility to stand together in solidarity against acts like this and to promote equity and inclusion.

As president of Wright State University, I understand the limitations of a message like this, because it comes at a time when many in our community are in pain and angry. At the same time, I hope you know that I stand with you in these challenging times.

I want to remind our campus community of resources that are available to assist you. I encourage anyone who needs it to reach out to these campus resources to provide you with support, compassion, and understanding.

Wright State students can seek confidential support services through Counseling and Wellness Services by calling 937-775-3407. You can call Raider Cares, a 24-hour crisis phone service, at 833-848-1765 (TTY: 314-485-4345). You also have access to a Crisis Text Line that offers 24-hour, seven-day per week text contact with trained crisis counselors, by texting "LISTEN" to 741-741.

Wright State's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides support services for all employees, regardless of benefit eligibility. EAP services are provided at no cost to employees, and include 24/7 telephone access to licensed and experienced counselors, as well as work/life balance services. Call 800-227-6007 or visit the Impact Solutions website at myimpactsolution.com. Use member username: wsufsap.

Diversity is one of our greatest strengths. Our diversity of thought, culture, background, and experiences fuel our community's ability to thrive in uncertain times, consider thought-provoking opinions without incident, and nurture one another when confronted by great challenges.

We will never fail when we face our challenges together. We stand together.

Sue

Dear Members of the Yale Community,

I write to you today deeply upset by the killing of George Floyd while he was in the custody of Minneapolis police officers. Mr. Floyd's death follows a pattern of racial injustice that has become too familiar in our country and that amounts to a national emergency.

At a time when the American community must come together more than ever before, George Floyd's horrifying death shocks our shared conscience and indicts our shared failure. It can and must remind us of other similar killings and of the racism, nativism, and bigotry too pervasive in society today and throughout our country's history.

Over the past week, I have been thinking about two seemingly incongruous things—our sense of community and one of our most basic emotions: fear.

Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, legitimate fear has been very much with us, but not just about the virus itself, and not among us equally. From reports of racism against people of Asian descent to the unacceptable disparities in health outcomes and health care, there was every reason for us to fear for the safety of our neighbors and family members, and of some, sadly, more than of others.

At the same time, I saw nurses, doctors, support staff, and volunteers act with courage, selflessness, and compassion in our home city and around the world. We nurtured a growing sense of community, which gave us the optimism and hope that must ever be a cornerstone of our beloved country. It is in the face of that noble expression of solidarity that George Floyd's death has shaken us and the shared spirit of heroism we have aroused to fight the pandemic.

As I read the news reports of Mr. Floyd's death and its explosive response, I knew that many members of our community feel fear in their daily lives because of the injustices they have experienced and witnessed, and I thought of how fear so reliably leads to anxiety, depression, health deterioration, and anger, and also to aggression and even violence. Some of the protests have turned destructive, undermining the plea for justice all Americans must share. Fear is powerful, damaging, and unpredictable in its effects.

I believe that all of us at Yale must do what we can to replace fear with hope—and not with anything less than action. Here I have been thinking much of the life of the extraordinary Pauli Murray, a lawyer, civil rights leader, and Yale Law School graduate. She experienced firsthand the cruelties of racial segregation and suffered injustices. She knew fear. However, she wrote in her memoir, "Seeing the relationship between my personal cause and the universal cause of freedom released me from a sense of isolation…I would be no less afraid to challenge the system of racial segregation, but the heightened significance of my cause would impel me to act in spite of my fears."

I have implored myself—and earnestly invite you to do the same— to make direct use of Pauli Murray's wisdom. Her words remind us of all that we have been able to accomplish together because of our shared commitment to the common good. Since mid-March, we have saved lives in this pandemic. We have isolated ourselves, changed the way we live, and sacrificed to safeguard the well-being of the most vulnerable among us and prevent our hospitals from becoming overwhelmed. It is vital to remember that we have been united in easing suffering, improving lives, and providing hope during a turbulent and challenging period of our history. If we can do this, we are capable, all of us, of creating the America we must insist belongs to us all.

In 1945, Pauli Murray wrote, "As an American I inherit the magnificent tradition of an endless march toward freedom and toward the dignity of all mankind." We have so much more to do to foster and sustain an equitable society. Instead of feeling the isolating effects of fear when our sense of community is shaken, we must remember that we are connected in more ways than we are divided. And that where we are divided, we must work, now, in the interest of unity and justice. This is a matter of the highest importance.

So, let us act as Pauli Murray would have us act toward those we know well but also those to whom we are connected simply by a common and powerful dream. I am grateful that you and I share Yale and its mission to improve the world today and for future generations. In looking forward to the work we have ahead of us, I wish you peace and strength.

With best wishes for your health and safety,

Peter Salovey
President
Chris Argyris Professor of Psychology
We are of our community – and our community is in pain. We cannot escape the problems of society – for we carry the successes and challenges of our community with us wherever we go. Left unchecked, racism, sexism, homophobia, and fear of the other can enter any organization or community – and destroy the foundations upon which we must build our future.

The past few harrowing days have laid bare how a lack of trust, respect, and leadership can tear at our social fabric. In these times, we must pull together and provide leadership in our own communities. Leadership is not about having all of the answers. It starts with unwavering principles that can steady us when the world seems unbalanced.

With all that is happening around us, let us recommit AAAS to these relevant principles:

    Diversity, equity, and inclusion along every axis are critical for our organization, the scientific enterprise, and our community to progress
    Ensuring lasting diversity, equity, and inclusion requires going beyond intervention to systemic change
    Systemic change begins with everyone feeling safe and respected
    Hatred, discrimination, and injustice have no place at AAAS, in science, or in our community

Let us recommit ourselves to these principles and rededicate ourselves to the mission of advancing science and serving society. Society needs us more than ever.

The coming weeks and months will bring further unprecedented challenges to us and our communities. What we do in this time will define us for a generation. In the face of national uncertainty, I am confident in this team’s ability to be a force for science, a force for good, and a support for one another. Our programs, publications, and advocacy are critical to a better and more just world. Your support makes each of these possible.

Nevertheless, a torrent of emotion has been unleashed in the last few days. It is understandable to feel anger, sadness, and helplessness. Many of us have been deeply impacted by these events. It is my hope that we come together as colleagues and friends to support one another. Science, scientists, and science advocates are going to be critical to ensuring we successfully navigate this troubled time together

"In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up — or go back."
ACM Stands with Those who promote inclusivity
In the United States, and throughout many regions around the world, current events have brought attention to the urgent need for equality and respect for all individuals. ACM reaffirms its commitment to fostering diversity and inclusion within the global computer science community.

As an international organization of nearly 100,000 professionals, ACM respects the essential worth of all people and firmly believes that diversity strengthens the scientific enterprise and society as a whole. ACM’s Code of Professional Ethics embodies these principles, and our Diversity and Inclusion Council works to translate them into effective action.

ACM is committed to creating an environment that welcomes new ideas and perspectives, and where hostility or other harmful behaviors are not tolerated. As an organization, we stand with those who promote inclusivity.


The AISES family shares in the pain and grief of the black community resulting from the murder of George Floyd and the long history of oppression and violence against their communities. As indigenous people, at AISES, we are guided by the traditional knowledge of our ancestors who have lived and died upon these lands since time immemorial. Among this knowledge is the deep understanding that "we are all related." It is this respect for relationships and community that guides AISES' programs and partnerships. For example, for several years now, AISES has been a part of the 50k Coalition alongside the National Society of Black Engineers, the Society of Women Engineers, and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers. Through partnerships like this, we have come to understand that our combined communities are stronger together. We have come to recognize that we are all working toward the same goals – diversity, equity, and inclusion for all communities and have learned that we can support one another through the adversity and challenges our communities face day in and day out. As such, today and every day, we stand with our black brothers and sisters in solidarity against the continued violence and systemic oppression of their communities. #blacklivesmatter

What do we tell our children, our students?
- Expressions from Alabama State University President, Dr. Quinton T. Ross Jr., on recent national events surrounding the death of George Floyd.
- By Dr. Quinton T. Ross Jr., President of Alabama State University.

"For the past few days, I, like many others have been viewing through the lens of the media, the reaction of our country to the deplorable and senseless death of yet another defenseless black person at the hands of a white police officer, a tragic mockery to the truth that Black Lives Matter. Similar to other Americans, I am overcome with a range of emotions.

As the father of two sons and as a black man myself, I can assure you that I am furious and deeply saddened by the death of George Floyd, as I am by every senseless killing of black males and females in America. It could have been either of my sons, my brothers, my nephews or nieces, my friends or even one of my students who lay on the ground, pleading for mercy on that horrific day. 

Looking into the eyes of my 11-year-old son and trying to help him comprehend what happened and what is happening in our nation, I am cognizant of the fact that I am old enough only to have read about the many civil rights protests and nonviolent demonstrations that have afforded me the opportunities that I have enjoyed during my lifetime.  While I was not an eyewitness to the protests, I do try to paint a picture for my son, drawing from my exposure to many civil rights icons and their recounting of historic events of the past, such as the Montgomery Bus Boycott, the march from Selma to Montgomery, the brutality of law enforcement officers such as Bull Connor and the story of Ruby Bridges. I am emotionally distraught about the stark parallel of our nation's present state of affairs and our nation's historical past.

I have been giving thought to this national crisis, especially as it relates to Alabama State University's rich history and her overwhelming contributions to the advancement of civil rights in the nation.  I am one of thousands of students who have matriculated and emerged from ASU with purpose and a true understanding of social justice and responsibility. At ASU, we learned the importance and the power of the vote.  The call to public service and advocacy was ingrained in our DNA by O' Mother Dear.

While I attempt to give some sensible explanation to the most recent senseless acts of brutality, I have reflected on my first real encounter with the reality of racist police violence against blacks in America.  It was the spring of 1991, just prior to my senior year in college, and I had just been elected President of the Student Government Association. This was the time that our nation witnessed Rodney King being brutally beaten by Los Angeles law enforcement officers after he led them on a high-speed chase.  I remember asking myself, "Is this what would happen to me as a black man if I found myself in a similar situation with authorities?" I vividly recall how the nation erupted into protests because of Rodney King's mistreatment, just like the protests that have erupted nationally because of the senseless death of George Floyd and others. Each incident is similar to the protests that happened across this nation in the 1960s due to social injustice.  As a young student, I was confused and enraged by what I witnessed. I remember the rumbling of unrest within our student body regarding Rodney King. We were all ready to act on our anger and frustration by taking to the streets of Montgomery to let our voices be heard.  Word of our intentions reached our President, the late Dr. C. C. Baker, who later became one of my mentors. My SGA leadership team and I were summoned to Dr. Baker's office, and it was there that I learned what social protesting was really all about. It is not about the destruction of property, looting or acting disorderly; it is about banding together peacefully with a common goal, with a purpose and a plan for change.  During the meeting, we discussed our desire to be heard and our passion for change, and emerged with a plan for a peaceful protest on the campus that historically has been a beacon for change—our home, our haven—Alabama State University.  This focusing event allowed me to lead my first press conference. It would be the first time I had ever spoken in front of news cameras. Every news outlet in the city was on campus that day as students gathered with community stakeholders in great numbers. I led the protest with a speech. Students and local elected officials were also able to have their voices heard as the media captured our impassioned sentiments and broadcast the event.  I share this personal experience not only to highlight the importance of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) in providing a platform for change, but also to emphasize the need to protest peacefully and with a purpose.

I offer that advice while understanding and even relating to the rage that has been unleashed across the nation by the infection of racism that is more potent than ever in America. Our nation has a new and improved infection of racism when George Floyd can plead for mercy while dying publicly under the force of a racist man's knee just as his forefathers died publicly hanging from a noose. There is a new and improved infection of racism when a young man by the name of Michael Brown can hold his hands up in surrender and still be shot to death in broad daylight in Ferguson, Missouri. There is a new and improved infection of racism when a man by the name of Eric Garner in New York City can tell authorities "I can't breathe"as he is choked to death.  The infection of racism is new and improved when a young man by the name of Trayvon Martin is gunned down in cold blood while walking from the store to his home. Racism is new and improved when Ahmaud Arbery can be gunned down while jogging not far from his home. There is a new and improved infection of racism when Breonna Taylor can be shot and killed by police officers as she lay sleeping in her apartment in Louisville, Kentucky. Let us not forget the infection of racism that related to the death of Sandra Bland, who was found hanged in a jail cell in Walker County, Texas, after being arrested for a minor traffic stop. Here in Montgomery, there is a new and improved infection of racism when a man by the name of Greg Gunn, who attended ASU, is chased and killed by a police officer just a few steps from his mother's front door. Their tragic deaths made headlines, but across this nation and even in this city, we could easily add more names to the rolls of those whose lives have been so tragically cut short with no cell phone cameras to capture their last, painful breaths.

With this in mind, we struggle with the question, "What should we tell our students?"The answer that I offer you is the same that I give to my sons. I ask that you find ways to protest peacefully, including exercising your personal responsibility to register to vote and then go vote, and committing yourself to continuing your education so that you are prepared to emerge as this nation's next generation of leaders. I ask that you resist the temptation to channel your anger into destruction; instead, channel your energy into the very thing that disturbs and disrupts those who would oppress you: Education.

Our nonviolent stand proved successful in the past, and I believe it could be the catalyst for real and impactful change today. Let peace be at the core of all of our actions.

While it seems as though remaining calm in the midst of a racist storm is a signal to be disrespected, disregarded and endangered, remember the lives that were lost to get us to this day. Remember the examples of those who were brutally beaten and rose up from that brutality to walk the halls of congress, to become mayors, governors, state legislators and community leaders. They are the ones upon whose shoulders we stand. Their sacrifices have afforded us the opportunity to stand and take up the mantle of peace, justice and equality for all. 

Stay in the fight against injustice my children and my students, with peace, purpose and a plan that saves us from self-destruction and allows us all to "breathe"freely."

News media contact: Kenneth Mullinax, 334-229-4104.



Our students, like Rondriquez White, who is also the co-founder of the Nashville Chapter of Black Lives Matter, are and always have been on the front lines of change in our country's history. As an organizer of this weekend's protest when asked about the extreme heat index by the media White says, "The temperature we face, the oppression that we face is even hotter."
As the U.S grapples with the murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbury and many other black men and women, it is during this painful time that we explicitly condemn racism and systematic oppression, and call for genuine change. We stand with the Black community and against anti-Blackness.
AnitaB.org was founded to increase the representation of women in in technology and ensure that women’s voices play a key role in shaping the future of the industry-and the extension of the world.
In the past, living mission-while created with the most progressive intentions- has sometimes fallen short of supporting every woman. Like many organizations’ histories, ours holds moments of erasure when it comes to uplifting Black people and women, the people who need it the most. We are working hard to live our values, both within our organization and as we work with our Partners to do the same.
We cannot allow this moment to pass us by and call our Partners to take action, including:
•        Increase your diversity. Hire Black people.
•        Contribute to the organizations that support the promotion of Black and other marginalized people.
•        Partner with public officials to change laws and policing to protect everyone.
•        Support protestors throughout the country by donating to bail funds.
The time is now to change our culture, create a more equal society and move forward together.
#BlackLivesMatter

So, here we are in 2020, painfully and acutely realizing that the long-held ideals of our nation, as embodied in the Constitution's aspirations of the right to equal justice, the right to pursue happiness and the right to individual liberty, are, in fact, unfairly and inequitably distributed across our society. This, of course, has been a reality since the founding of our Republic and, although we have made progress through our struggles and our changes, it is nonetheless jolting to see these inequalities manifested through the unfair treatment of individuals based on their race and ethnicity by the very government designed to protect and defend their rights as citizens.

The blatant abuse of power by the police as exhibited in the case of George Floyd, and many others, is in many ways akin to the actual abuses of power perpetrated against Americans in ways that led to the revolution against Great Britain. The very founding of our nation was a result of these mistreatments by the ruling government itself at the time.

Individuals have rights, the government must protect those rights, and the government must not be involved in injuring or diminishing those rights, particularly in its exertion of power towards its people.

The Constitution of the United States is perhaps the most important aspirational document ever written and codified by humans to govern themselves, particularly in the sense that it leaves very little to doubt about its goals of equality, justice, liberty, and the ability to pursue happiness by the individual as its purpose. That document, the Constitution, is in and of itself our collective aspirational goal, the society we wish we could be as a people. Can we find ways in all that we do, including policing, education, and social welfare, to meet the ideals of that Constitution and all that it stands for? The answer is no, unless we are willing to face our failings, call out our injustices, and drive towards the changes needed to achieve the common goals America was built to achieve.

In August 1963, on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King in his globally noted and socially profound "I Have A Dream"speech, outlined exactly this concept of aspiration. Dr. King used the "dream"concept to describe a world in the future in which the actual articulation of the aspirations of the Constitution could be realized in every person's life regardless of their race, ethnicity, religion, or social class. He did this with a level of eloquent intensity that set the stage for the pursuit of further attainment of the American constitutional aspirations. He knew the aspirations; he knew the intent of the words and the concepts; he knew the philosophies on which they were based and that they were substantial and powerful in terms of what is a human being; he knew the struggles that preceded in the evolution of the United States; and he knew the struggle that he was a part of as a leader of the Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s, which ultimately cost him his own life.

The key point here by Dr. King, and I think the key point of the Constitution itself, goes well beyond any interpretation of the Constitution by a particular sitting Supreme Court, for as we know many of those interpretations from the past would be found today to be appalling, but rather towards the idea of fighting for and driving toward and working toward our national aspirational goals, particularly of equality and justice.

We, the university community broadly and Arizona State University specifically, are, in fact, an aspirational institution and we have, in fact, been woefully inadequate, up to this point, in our own efforts to facilitate the means by which higher aspirational attainment might be achieved for these central goals to our society. This is particularly true as we have grown and diversified as a society.

At ASU, we have taken to heart the notion of designing and building the "New American University,"a university built on the notion of maximum social inclusion, maximum academic excellence, and maximum impact on serving our communities all from the same institution. In the last 15–20 years, Arizona State University students have become representative of the totality of the diversity of our society, and we have altered the functional way in which we operate to help bring about this "New America,"this aspirational attainment of our core values, as stated through the U.S. Constitution. But, even with that, we have been too slow in the concept of redesigning, reconceptualizing, restaffing, re-empowering and enabling the institutions that we, the university more broadly and ASU more specifically, have helped to design, create, staff, and assess. Our institutions are not living up to our hopes. They are not yet as capable as they need to be to reach our collective dream.

Why is it that we still have systems and institutions that can carry out and often justify injustices in the name of the people? Why is it that we have inadequate learning and empowerment opportunities in so many areas of our society? Why do we have police officers so inadequately trained that groups of them can stand by while a person is murdered in a public display of abuse of authority? Why do we not have enough new tools for enhancing the outcomes of our criminal justice system or enough new ideas and solutions about how to address drug addiction and other powerfully negative forces at work in our society? Why have universities become increasingly elitist organizations drawing only from the cream of the cream of our society or from families producing "learning elites"from significant amounts of personal wealth and personal networks? These and many other questions are questions that we can and should not only address but attack and begin to resolve.

But, in spite of all of our efforts, we still have insufficient ideas for social transformation where it might make the most positive difference in terms of accelerating the rate of change and accelerating the rate of enhanced social justice and accelerating the rate of enhanced pursuit of happiness across as much of our society as is possible. We need to do more.

To do more, I am asking our deans and faculty and students of all of our ASU colleges to outline new initiatives, new programs, and new designs that we can initiate with our own resources and then pursue additional partners in creating and deploying new solutions. Our Watts College of Public Service and Community Solutions, our Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law, our School of Social Transformation, our Mary Lou Fulton Teachers College, and other critical ASU academic communities can outline new efforts, new concepts, and new strategies to devise new models for protecting and defending the rights of individuals; new methods, new concepts, and new tools for policing; models for justice and the law that are, in fact, implementable throughout the process and not only after injustices have occurred.

All of our schools and all of our programs, as well as all of our faculty, can engage in this process of new ideas, new designs, and new concepts, while we, as Arizona State University, continue to strive towards our aspirational goal of being the highest quality, highest performing, most egalitarian university operating across the breadth of our society that we possibly can be.

To do this, I am asking that the deans engage in a college-by-college process and that the student leaders also engage in a process for specific new initiatives that we can undertake. I would like to be able to review these aspirational attainment ideas before the opening of the fall semester so that we might get some new energy focused here as faculty and students reassemble.

If, in the interim, there are immediate ideas or immediate actions, get those to me straightaway.

My hope is that we can take a good hard look at our own intellectual underpinnings here and ask ourselves, "are there things that we can do differently or designs that we can produce or teaching and learning that we can alter that can help produce new and better aspirational attainment for the goals of our country?"

I look forward to our moving forward as soon as possible with new efforts. 


We are the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE). We take each of those words and our collective identity very seriously.
We're American. We recall that this nation was born in rebellion to oppressive tyranny and that no oppressor has ever gladly surrendered his position. We're American. We know that nativism has never been our strength; rather we have embraced the world and taken our strength from all the peoples of the world, including those who were already here.
We are a Society. We are a community of shared interests and purposes. Prominent among our shared interests is diversity, equity, and inclusion. We have spoken out forcefully in this regard time and time again including our February 1, 2017 statement on the US President's executive orders on immigration.
We are Engineers. We understand that diversity, equity, and inclusion are essential to the quality of what engineers produce. It's not a "nice to have"—it is essential. Circumstances or actions that impede diversity, equity, and inclusion are inimical to good engineering practice.
We are Educators. Whether we stand in research labs, classrooms, factory floors, or boardrooms, we seek to enlighten others to what we know and what we are learning. We seek to facilitate opportunities for all to learn to the best of their abilities, and to hold ourselves accountable for the quality of our facilitation. We recognize historical and systemic inequities in opportunities and preparation to learn and seek to ensure equitable access and success in education.
The murder of Mr. George Floyd, like that of so many others before him, was a heinous act. But it was not a singular act, or an isolated act. It was part of a pervasive pattern and practice of learned, ingrained, and automatic behaviors that have and will require persistent, consistent, and resistant action to limit and eventually reverse.
We recognize our limitations, but believe that by working together as ASEE members and in collaboration with others, we can contribute to advancing and sustaining the deep and wide change that will be necessary for this nation to begin to achieve the aspirational words that are the preamble to the US Constitution – . . . forming a more perfect Union, establishing Justice, insuring domestic Tranquility, . . . promoting the general Welfare, and securing the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity . . .
Our nation is hurting. For the last few months, we have hurt physically, financially and otherwise from the coronavirus. Now, recent events of racial injustice are hurting us in many ways that words often find inadequate to fully express.

While we acknowledge the painful reality that prejudice and bigotry exist, we stand resolute that they have no place in the Auburn Family. As an institution that values and embraces each individual, we oppose hate and exclusion and acts that promote them.

It was on my heart to reaffirm Auburn’s values. I’m confident that we, together, will work toward change and healing.

To the families, friends and loved ones of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery, we extend our deepest sympathy. Our hearts ache for both the nation we have worked to make more just and equitable and for the city we love and call home. Through our grief for the countless known and unknown victims of systematic racism, we continue to pray that we can use this moment to shine light in our communities. This is not the moment to fall into despair. The world needs our leadership and love. As our forefathers and mothers from the Atlanta Student Movement, the larger Civil Rights Movement, and every struggle for justice in America have shown us, we accomplish great things when we act in solidarity with those who fight for freedom and push America to live up to its promise.

For well over a century, the institutions of the Atlanta University Center have worked to use the light of knowledge to guide the nation out of dark times. The very existence of Clark Atlanta University, Morehouse College, Morehouse School of Medicine, and Spelman College is a form of protest in itself—a recognition that education can illuminate the path to justice and equality and a demand that it be available to the sons and daughters of the diaspora. While we are proud of the leaders in every field our institutions have sent forth into the workforce, we are even prouder of their preparation to carry forward the hard work of making the world better through ideas, innovation, creativity, courage, and determination.

What can we do, individually and as the AUC community? What is the way forward? What are the difficult conversations we need to have and with whom? What are the action plans we need to craft? These are the challenges in the days and weeks ahead. Together, we must continue to thoughtfully engage in the hard work of creating positive change in our communities and across our nation.




I write when I am bothered...I am bothered tonight.
All day, I have watched social media and news with horror as protests borne out of an act of racial violence – the murder of George Floyd - turned to violent demonstrations and even riots. As an African American I fully understand the hurt, anger and utter frustration that drives us to this point. The psychological trauma inflicted on African Americans every time a black life is cut short unnecessarily by a uniformed officer, cannot be understated, nor can it be dismissed. However, we must govern ourselves strategically and with discipline. We are strong, resilient, committed and brilliant. We must organize, plan and use our collective voices to bring about the change we seek.

I am asking you to do three (3) things:

1) Control Your Coins - Consistent, sustained economic pressure. We must stop spending and investing our money into businesses that do not respect and appreciate our buying power. Do not shop in stores where you are followed, ignored or treated rudely. We must never reward ignorance or disrespect. Today we have seen individuals post cruel and racist statements, jokes and pictures. Take note of where those people work. Report them and refuse to support the businesses that employ them.

2) VOTE. NEVER allow an election to occur without casting your VOTE. Educate yourself on the issues that impact our communities and vote out prosecutors and other elected officials who turn a deaf ear on the needs of our people. Attend candidate forums, write letters, attend meetings, volunteer and yes, donate to the campaigns of the candidates you believe in. History has demonstrated that we are a powerful voting block and when we show up!

For many Americans, and for Black Americans in particular, the very soul of the nation seems in peril at the moment. 
The horrific murder of George Floyd, captured in all its public, brutal clarity, serves as a stark reminder of the divergences between the highest ideals of our society as posited by our founders and the stark, 400-year reality for black, brown and native Americans.  It is also a reminder of the fragility of the very lives of black people, including the life of Breonna Taylor, when intertwined with the nation’s criminal justice system. It begs the question: Why is this still happening?
At the same time, we reel from the disproportionate impacts on our community of COVID-19. The higher percentage of death and sickness is overwhelming. The accompanying, record-setting unemployment and economic hardship serve as a painful reminder of just some of the profound and enduring inequities in our society.

There is a great deal of pain. The protests around the country are manifestations of a cumulative national despair.  There is a well-earned weariness here – our community and those who support it have a right to be tired, frustrated and angry.  At the same time, the protests reflect a determination to make positive change, no matter the fatigue.   As our esteemed founder, Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune, teaches us, we must be resilient. We must be energetic in not accepting the status quo, and in not letting it deprive us of our future.  We can define society up.      
And with those protests, we condemn the violence and looting of the few and celebrate the voice of the many. We hold ourselves to a higher standard. We are also watchful of the reaction of authorities and our leaders—who themselves should be held to the same high standard.
We are reminded that great institutions like B-CU, born of trauma, poverty and racism, are very much on the front lines of enabling America to fulfill its highest aims and aspirations. B-CU and other HBCUs serve as both the mirror to and the conscience of the American ideal. The role our institutions assume in serving and healing America—and the role our amazing students will assume as future leaders—has never been more critical or evident.   
At B-CU, we serve students by intentionally exposing them to ideas and experiences that will enable them to discern between what is right and what is easy, and to recognize that with the education they receive, comes a responsibility to a greater good.  B-CU fulfills its mission, in part, by bridging the gap between talent and ability, and access and opportunity.  We serve this nation through harnessing the inextricable linkages – the shared existence – that many of us hold with the communities in which our institutions were born.  For B-CU, that happens to be the former city dump, Hell’s Hole, which was the only land available to our founder. Through determination, faith and a legacy of love she transformed it into our beautiful, enduring university campus.      
In the midst of our collective national trauma, B-CU will continue to live the ideals of its founder.  We will unconditionally love and support our students and one another.  We will do what we have always done – we will rise, support one another and we will affirm the very best of who we are and have always been as a community.   



The unrest following the abhorrent viral video of George Floyd’s murder has led many of us to have real conversations with our children and families about the ugly reality of racism in America; leaving a sense of hopelessness.

How can we tell our girls (and boys) they have the capability to become the next tech CEO and in the same breath detail precautions to take when encountering individuals who are supposed to protect and serve? How can we encourage our girls to show up in society as their authentic selves when we bear witness to countless incidents that illustrate the disregard for Black humanity? How do we tell our girls there are no limits on their dreams when even in the year 2020 racial barriers continue to pervade our daily lives? There is no specific code for how to handle these traumatic incidents when they arise, but we know it starts with being intentional about keeping our children informed, empowered, and hopeful.

At Black Girls CODE, the core of our mission is to empower young women of color between the ages of 7–17 to embrace the current tech marketplace as builders and creators by introducing them to skills in computer programming and technology. Yet the foundation of our work is about so much more than just teaching our girls to write a line of code. The focus of our work is centered on teaching our girls to embrace self-actualization, self-confidence, and self efficacy; we uplift racial justice and equity so that our girls can not only survive but thrive within spaces in the fullness of their unique selves.

We must not let these incidents diminish their sense of pride, but rather use them as fuel to face these obstacles head-on, go further, reach higher and rise. Staying true to the vision of creating brighter futures for our girls, our organization will be here to support our community through this difficult time and for every step on the journey towards healing. We want to express our gratitude to those who have rallied around BGC and have made contributions to ensure we can continue to do meaningful work, especially amid uncertain times.

At times like these we are even more assured that our work is timely and relevant. We will push on together to create space for a better world for our girls, their families, and the beloved community.
Blackcomputerher:
To our community: we are with you, and we are here for you. We are also working on new programming to support you and keep us connected. We'll share more soon, but in the meantime, stay safe and take care of yourselves. 

The Bluefield State College community is united in mourning the tragic and senseless death of George Floyd. Each of us should be deeply saddened by the hate that was expressed by this terrible act. The late Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. said, "We must learn to live together as brothers or we will perish together as fools." Racial discrimination cannot be tolerated in America. Bluefield State is a Historically Black College that serves a population that is diverse, but we are a community where each member must passionately embrace the belief that people of color cannot continue to suffer because of racism. We MUST resolve to love our brother, because hatred can destroy us all. The journey forward can only be made with heartfelt, lifelong, commitment to love, to forgive and to ask for forgiveness, and to listen and learn. We lift up our collective prayers for Mr. Floyd and his family, for the African American community- both locally and nationally- and for each other. The journey will be challenging, but it can also be infinitely rewarding. As Dr. King noted, "You don't have to see the whole staircase, just take the first step." -President, Robin Capehart, Bluefield State College
In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic and our efforts to restore campus operations, our nation has been rocked by acts of violence and ensuing unrest and disruption that have now occurred here in Boston. We are confronted, once again, by the grim reality of systemic racism in our country. The killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and others bring to the forefront these abhorrent elements in our society. At a time when we rely on our police more than ever, we watch painful examples of some officers breaking the public trust in the most egregious ways. These injustices are amplified by the vividly disparate impact of COVID-19 on African Americans in particular, as well as on other ethnic or minority communities.

We grieve for our country and those who are affected by systemic racism, just as we grieve for those afflicted by COVID-19. We will defeat COVID-19 using science and our collective will. We must commit the same will and energy to defeat systemic racism. We must reject the forces in our society that are driving us apart and commit ourselves to creating a just society.

In the current troubled climate, I believe our commitment to restoring our residential campus is made all the more important by the divisions in our country. We are working nonstop to restore campus operations for the fall and will shortly make more detailed announcements about this effort. This is critical because our residential community brings together students from every background to live and learn together, with our faculty, in an atmosphere that promotes mutual understanding and respect. And we are continually working to do this better for all members of the Boston University community. As I write you today, I recall the two months last spring when we witnessed the uniting effect on our community of the expanded Howard Thurman Center for Common Ground, before campus life was abruptly interrupted by the virus. Our return to our residential campus and our personal interactions with one another that are not mediated by a computer screen is essential to the critical work we must undertake to build a campus, a community, and a society that is free from systemic racism.

When we return to Commonwealth Avenue, life on campus will not look or be the same as it was last fall, but we can create a learning community that preserves Boston University as a beacon for the country and world. Such beacons are desperately needed in our country today. I look forward to welcoming you back to campus.
The tragic events unfolding in Minneapolis are yet another reminder that systemic discrimination and violence against African Americans still plague our society.

Since its founding, our Bowie State University community has stood for the inclusion of diverse cultures and voices, and has wholeheartedly condemned acts of violence and incivility. I am deeply troubled by the tragic death of another African American male, George Floyd, in Minneapolis and the rioting that is occurring in response.

We must not let this tragedy go unnoticed. I encourage the BSU community to continue listening to the voices of people of all races that are crying out for change. While I am disheartened by the events in Minneapolis, I know we are stronger when we stand together and use our voices for what we know is right and just for all.



George Floyd's killing was cruel, inhumane, and contemptible. The injustice of violence against black people must stop.

The history of our great university is intertwined with the pursuit of justice. Brandeis was created in response to antisemitism and bigotry. We cannot tolerate discrimination, hatred, or violence against another person based on their race, religion, or background. These values are as important today as they were at our founding.

These are not just words or noble ideas. These are principles that inspire us at Brandeis to educate, to learn, and to act.

With that in mind, I join with Mark Brimhall-Vargas, chief diversity officer, in calling for us to come together, even if virtually. In the message Mark sent on Friday, he mentioned two different events happening this week. The Heller School is hosting a conference, "Co-Constructing Racial Justice through Life and Work."And Mark will host "Coming Together to Face Systemic Racism."I hope you will join me in attending both.

As Brandeisians, not all of our experiences are shared ones. We come from different backgrounds and have different perspectives. But I know that there are some things we have in common. This includes an unwavering commitment to justice, equity, and inclusion. It includes respecting other people, no matter their background.

I hope to see you at one of the events tomorrow or the next day. Let us come together to express our commitment to ending racist violence.
We write to you today as leaders of this university to express first deep sadness, but also anger, regarding the racist incidents that continue to cut short the lives of black people every day.

The sadness comes from knowing that this is not a mere moment for our country. This is historical, lasting and persistent. Structures of power, deep-rooted histories of oppression, as well as prejudice, outright bigotry and hate, directly and personally affect the lives of millions of people in this nation every minute and every hour. Black people continue to live in fear for themselves, their children and their communities, at times in fear of the very systems and structures that are supposed to be in place to ensure safety and justice.

The anger comes from knowing that we have been here before, and in fact have never left. Rallies and protests across the country are raising voices about ongoing injustice in the wake of the killings of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, Breonna Taylor in Louisville, KY, and George Floyd in Minneapolis. As a nation, we might have thought there would be some real change after the deaths of Freddie Gray and Sandra Bland, both who died in police custody in 2015, a year in which some justice organizations reported more than 100 police shootings of unarmed black people in the United States. And this was after our nation mourned and protested the ongoing epidemic of racism with the 2014 deaths of Michael Brown, Eric Garner, Tamir Rice and countless others before and after that year.

All of these deaths "launched national conversations"about anti-black racism. And we know that so many in our community keep asking how many times these conversations have to happen before there is real change. We know there are so many in our community hurting and deeply frustrated, and things are made worse by a pandemic that doesn't allow us to be together and is disproportionately killing black people. We have not been able to gather in some of the ways that usually unite us to build collective understanding, mourn and make calls for action.

We hope that wherever you may be, you seek to effect change in your communities in the ways that make sense for you while preserving your health and safety in this time of COVID-19. And this does not apply only to members of our community residing in the United States. Tragic and traumatic examples of injustice against racial, ethnic and religious minorities persist around the world, resulting in horrific instances of brutality, incarceration and death. Our local and national government leaders need to hear from us as individual constituents in their communities consistently and persistently on issues of racial and ethnic injustice.

As a university, we have tremendous resources in our departments, centers and institutes that can help our community and our society interrogate the persistent and deeply disturbing issues related to race, racism and police violence in America. In the weeks and months to come, we will leverage the expertise of our faculty, staff and students to develop programming, courses and research opportunities designed to advance knowledge and promote essential change in policy and practice in the name of equity and justice.

We are a community that does not condone acts of racism, discrimination or violence. This cannot be accepted as "normal."We must continue to demand equity and justice for all people, inclusive of all identities. And we must continue to care for and support each other, especially in this time when we are apart.
George Floyd was killed last week by someone sworn to protect him – someone sworn to protect all of us and the liberties we enjoy. It was evil and ugly. And as Mr. Floyd begged to be allowed to breathe, other officers stood by and did nothing. 
Over the past week, I've been reflecting, like a lot of Americans. What should we do – and what should I do – in the face of evil? Americans are understandably very angry, and some have chosen to protest. The right to protest is among our most cherished freedoms, and I respect all who do so nonviolently.
Over the last few days, I have met with small groups of UTEP students, faculty, staff and alumni. I talked to them about their experiences at UTEP and in El Paso to learn if there were concerns about racism on our campus, and particularly in our campus police force.
I was pleased that, generally, people feel safe here, and they don't think that there is a problem in the UTEP police force. "El Paso is different,"several told me. Still, many feel like "a minority in a minority"and "sometimes invisible."Not all of our students know where to go or what to do if they have a problem, and many of them had ideas about how to make things better.     
It's up to all of us to ensure our country lives up to the ideals of a free and equal society, and there will be much that we will need to do in the coming months – as individuals and as a campus community. 
To begin with, I will be asking our Student Government Association, our Faculty Senate, and our Staff Council to recommend campus colleagues who will work with our Chief of Police to review our policies, procedures, practices and training so that we continue to build trust between the UTEP Police Department and those whom they are sworn to protect. Good organizations always try to be better.
UTEP has a proud legacy of breaking down barriers, as music professor Engebret Thormodsgaard did in 1956 when he cast 20-year-old Bernice Bell to play the heroine opposite a white man in an opera production staged in Magoffin Auditorium; and as Don Haskins and our men's basketball team did in 1966 at the NCAA national championship, forever changing college athletics in this country. UTEP was the first baccalaureate institution in Texas to desegregate; we have a legacy of creating opportunities for those historically underserved by higher education in America, with a student body that is over 90% minority in a top tier research university. 
UTEP will remain true to our legacy by doing good in the face of evil.

Even as our nation struggles to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to bear witness to the reality that systemic racism and injustice pervade our society. The deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery are but the latest examples of violent and dehumanizing acts of racism across the country. I am heartbroken and outraged by these tragedies, and I know that the CMU community around the world shares my concern for the victims’ families, and for those in our community who are most impacted by these hateful acts. Please know that we see you, we care about you and we are here for you. While I recognize I cannot fully understand the pain, anxiety and fear these events inflict on Black and African Americans, including many in our own community, I know that it is up to each one of us – no matter our background – to confront and dismantle racism and injustice wherever they exist.

At times like this we must reflect on what we can do to make society, including our own community, more just. It would be inadequate to restate our commitment to respect, value, and foster diversity, equity and inclusion across our community. We know we have much work to do to live out these values at Carnegie Mellon. Learning about each other’s lived experiences; engaging with and supporting colleagues; challenging injustice when we witness it; and, especially, actively listening to each other will truly help us build the campus climate we seek.

Uniting in the face of challenging times is the Carnegie Mellon way. Acts of solidarity at The Fence, community discussions and listening sessions have helped us all grieve and heal together. Although we cannot gather in traditional ways, we will be working in the days and weeks ahead to curate virtual opportunities to consider actions we as a community can take to be the change we wish to see in the world. In the meantime, we ask our entire community to come together, with humility, compassion and empathy, to support one another, including those who are feeling especially vulnerable now.

With great respect for you and every member of our community,

Six years later, the words are the same.

I can't breathe.

After all of the mourning and protests, the lawsuits and training, the promises made and lessons learned, nothing, it seems, has changed.

Lying on a Staten Island sidewalk in the summer of 2014, Eric Garner said "I can't breathe"nearly a dozen times as a police officer's arm stayed tight around his throat.

Last Monday in Minneapolis, George Floyd repeated the same phrase—in his case, with an officer's knee pressing into his neck.

The local protests that followed have spread across the country, reaching Cleveland on Saturday. Ours opened peacefully, but devolved soon after marchers reached the Justice Center a few blocks away. Protesters pitched water bottles and spray-painted walls, officers released tear gas canisters, and before long, police cars were engulfed in flames.

Today protests continued in communities nationwide—and even extended to London and Berlin. In Cleveland, meanwhile, officials announced a noon curfew for downtown to allow time for clean-up of streets and stores.

But what about the systemic racism cited so often in recent days? How can a city, a country, "clean up"that?

We cannot—should not—ever try to wipe away the past.

We need to know it. Own it. And commit to forging a better future.

Four months after Eric Garner died in 2014, Tamir Rice was shot and killed by police while playing with a toy gun outside a Cleveland recreation center.

He was 12 years old.

The following year, the city accepted a 110-page settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice. The document required sweeping reforms to address the department's record of excessive force and urgent need to restore community trust.

The monitoring team's most recent report, issued in September, found force incidents fell by nearly a third compared to 2017.

That team, including deputy monitor Ayesha Bell Hardaway of our law school, still found shortcomings, in particular in terms of resources for training and data systems. Nevertheless, the group concluded the department had made "substantial progress."

While the medical examiner ruled Garner's death a homicide, the officer who choked him never faced charges. Nor did the one who killed Tamir. On Friday, Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin was arrested and charged with third-degree murder. He appears in court tomorrow.

Small steps, true. But in a moment of so much anger… and pain… and sorrow, they matter.

In the often-quoted words of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. "…the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."

As an institution of higher learning, we have a profound responsibility to the future. When it comes to this moment, how can we best begin to fulfill it?

This week, we will provide opportunities to engage, and share resources for those who would like support. Tonight, though, we want to remind you of a part of our legacy: The first Commencement address Frederick Douglass ever gave came at Western Reserve College in 1854.

"The relation subsisting between the white and black people of this country is the vital question of the age,"he told some 3,000 in attendance. "In the solution of this question, the scholars of America will have to take an important… part."




As we navigate these unprecedented times, we are now forced to deal with a series of tragic events. The unconscionable deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery were unnecessary incidents that have drawn national and international attention. Many people realize that this can and should be the moment to move America forward — into an era of social and economic justice, equity, and stability. We, as a nation, must do better.

Representing the two oldest Historically Black Colleges and Universities in our nation — Cheyney University of Pennsylvania and Lincoln University of Pennsylvania — we stand together against racial injustice. America's HBCUs are in a unique position to be at the forefront of this effort. Our institutions exist because there was a time when universities did not accept African Americans into the ranks of their student population, so we created our own. Now, more than ever, our vision and our voices must be heard.

We call on our students to focus their energy on bringing constructive change to the society in which we live. We ask them to use the modern technology and resources that previous generations did not have as the means to adapt, to overcome inequities and to change our communities for the better. Most importantly, we want our students to stay safe at all times, whether they decide to express their voices at home or in person at peaceful demonstrations.

We are reminded of the words of two prominent alumni of our storied institutions. They are just as relevant today as when they were first spoken and penned:

"…We do solemnly pledge ourselves to assist by our means any suit brought against the perpetrators of outrages…"

– Octavius V. Catto, Cheyney University, Class of 1858

"O, let my land be a land where Liberty
Is crowned with no false patriotic wreath,
But opportunity is real, and life is free,
Equality is in the air we breathe."

– Langston Hughes, Lincoln University, Class of 1929

We are in challenging times that require unity and a sense of purpose. Cheyney University and Lincoln University stand united in the fight for social justice.

Regrettably, African Americans are continuing to be targeted across our great nation. The Claflin University community calls for prayers for the family of George Floyd and all other victims of reported aggression by law enforcement against African Americans and people of color.
After the protests have ended, America must find ways to heal by restoring "Peace with Justice." The work will be hard, but through transformative education, unity, and a true commitment for a changed nation we can move forward.
Corrective action strategies must reflect immediate tools for corrective systemic and cultural change. Only through transformative education, is it possible for shifts in both behavior and mindsets to occur toward more positive humanistic outcomes.
In essence, a cultural shift must occur throughout all of society, especially police precincts, court systems, and prosecutors. Society can no longer tolerate:
•        Treatment of African Americans as second-class citizens.
•        Hasty and unjustified judgment based on the color of one's skin.
•        Excessive harm and brutality to African Americans by law enforcement officers
•        Education and more effective training of law enforcement officers are needed within training academies, and all systems governing the safety of our nation's citizens. African Americans must cease to be marginalized, brutalized and/or murdered by justice systems based on ethnicity.
The pathways for transformation in thinking and shifts in mindsets against such brutality is at the heart of Claflin University's new Center for Social Justice. Our Center will work across disciplines, communities, and demographics, to be a game changer regionally, nationally, and internationally. Our Center, though its programming, will foster collaborations and greater understanding of social justice issues throughout the region and beyond.

Claflin University, the first historically black college and university in South Carolina, is the place where the lives of young African Americans have been shaped for the future for more than 150 years. As such, we see it as our role and mission to be the place to re-shape systems and faulty mindsets that continue to marginalize and bring harm to these future leaders. We desire to be the catalyst for:
•        Helping justice workers around the nation learn how to embrace diversity.
•        Restoring "Peace with Justice."
•        Reducing violence against African Americans.
Our response to the continued violence against African Americans indicates a need for immediate cultural shifts in how African Americans are treated by reported "peacekeepers" around the nation. While many law enforcement officers are performing their duty with dignity and respect toward the public, there still remain too many others who abuse their roles. African Americans are dying and suffering at the hands of many law enforcement officers due to systemic racism and faulty underlying psycho-cultural assimilated orientations of race. While the current protests highlight this crisis, a real solution involves immediate and systemic change in both the mindset and behaviors of everyone involved in all areas of law enforcement and the criminal justice system, past and present.
The Center for Social Justice will provide a platform for our mission to lead a national movement of change. The following is a list of the Center's upcoming projects and activities that will affirm our leadership in this national movement.
1. Day of Reflection Vigil in memory of George Floyd and other recent victims of reported aggression by law enforcement against African Americans and people of color. This vigil, scheduled for June 19, will be a virtual event given the accelerated numbers of COVID-19 across the U.S., the increased risk of African Americans contracting COVID-19, and the number of people across the U.S. and the world who will join our prayer vigil.
2. Transformative action within the highest levels of government. Claflin University is calling on the U.S Department of Justice to partner with us to change the systemic violence towards African Americans throughout this country.
3. Transformative action with partners around the nation. Claflin University will convene the first National Summit for ending violence against African Americans. The Summit will unveil the infusion of anti-racist training resources to adequately support the training and empowerment of all levels of people involved in law enforcement across the country (developed by Claflin University) to confront both conscious and unconscious marginalizing views of minority groups. Representatives from various law enforcement agencies across the nation; HBCUs; UNCF; NAACP; local, state, and national representatives; and other local and national community groups will participate.
4. Annual training and certification programs will be offered to employees at all levels of law enforcement and the criminal justice system through our Center. The focus will be on cultural competencies, urban/rural policing, emotional intelligence and race relations.
5. The development of a "Peace with Justice Covenantal Statement" to be signed by all law enforcement officers prior to beginning service at their respective agencies.
6. The development of agreed upon actions to be taken by both African Americans and law enforcement in the event, for example, behavior after a traffic stop by law enforcement officers.
7. The development of a "Bill of Rights" for African Americans who feel they are being targeted because of their race which will carry a review by boards governing all areas of law enforcement.
Through these initiatives coordinated through the Center of Social Justice, Claflin University will remain at the forefront in the struggle for social justice, economic empowerment, and political equality.


Over the past several days, Clarkson University has joined the nation in grieving the death of George Floyd. The subsequent protests are more than just a response to an isolated incident. Change is necessary.
Clarkson’s core values call us to work towards addressing deep-rooted issues of racial inequality at the heart of these events. We must do so both locally and nationally through intentional actions and with respect to the dignity of our community members.
To our students, employees and alumni who are hurting, we offer our support and our resources.
For those who want to do something to make a difference,  by using our individual and collective voices participate in our Community Meeting on Thursday, June 4 at 7pm Eastern time
connect to the Clarkson community members below and reach out to your elected officials (https://usa.gov/elected-officials) to share the change you want.
I, like many others, am deeply saddened by recent tragic events nationwide and the deep divisions that still threaten our ability to move ahead as one nation.

Let there be no doubt: Racism, injustice, violence, brutality and hatred, in any form, cannot be tolerated.

Amid the turbulent times of 2020, we find our Clemson family physically apart due to COVID-19. Still, we can and should reach out to those in our family who are hurting or in need.

We also can put into practice our Clemson values: We value the rights of others. We are respectful of each other and our individual differences, beliefs and ideas. We actively listen and communicate. We seek to understand one another’s challenges, and are tolerant and forgiving.  And, we come from diverse backgrounds that make up one inclusive Clemson Family.

Our work is not only in the moment, but it also lies in the daily development of our University community, as we work to ensure that everyone feels welcome and valued as a part of this Clemson Family.

As we continue to prepare our campus for the return of our full community this fall, we must keep working to repair the world every day, step by step, to make Clemson and our world a better place for us all.

We can, and must, do better if we are to build a truly inclusive Clemson community. That work has never been more important than it is right now.

My entire leadership team and I are committed to continued progress in this area. Should anyone have ideas they would like to share with us, I encourage you to reach out to us at UnitedClemson@clemson.edu.


It pains us to see racism grip our nation and cause suffering in Black communities. This must stop.
Code.org stands together with the black community- our employees, partners, teachers, and their students-in the fight against the systemic inequity, racism, and injustice in the United States.

I have been contemplating the role of a university, especially in times of great crisis, this last week of May 2020 when the right words are so hard to come by. At William & Mary, one important role is continually to call ourselves to awareness of our history, in the present. As the great American writer James Baldwin taught us, "not everything that is faced can be changed, but nothing can be changed until it is faced."

None of us can ignore the turmoil, the heartbreak, of the racial divisions in our country — a cascade of grief for Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd has brought it to the fore. The racism and injustice we continue to witness bring grievous hurt to our communities. It comes to us at a moment when so many in this nation and the world are vulnerable, intensifying the loss and weariness of pandemic. We are facing again the legacy of our country's founding, that did not recognize the full humanity of all peoples. African Americans in our communities are asking, in this moment, do you recognize my full humanity? We do. We will face this with you.

A critical role of a university at moments of crisis is to rededicate ourselves to the propositions that sustain a pluralistic democracy. We recognize that we are still far from realizing them for all: fairness, respect for the human dignity of others, evidence-based argument, scientific discovery, the pursuit of opportunity and safety and equal justice under the law.

As a public university in Virginia, dedicated to the perpetuity of democratic institutions, it has never been more important that we commit ourselves to change that advances these values. We must find it within ourselves to look for hope. And as we face unspeakable acts, we must be there to help lift one another's heavy hearts — so we can study together, learn and work together, toward a more humane and free world. The past week's events demonstrate how much farther we have to go.

As we search for paths forward during these uncertain times, the role of a university provides some clarity and William & Mary's core values of belonging, respect and integrity provide direction. The diverse communities and perspectives we convene — to grapple with our imperfections and our legacies of inequality — are our best hope for empowering those who study here to build our future together.
Dear Mines Community,
For the past week, the news has been dominated by the tragic death of George Floyd and the ensuing protests, civil unrest and destruction. It has been difficult to watch and to process—the wrongness of the death, the intense anger and emotion of the protestors and the widely varying responses of our elected leaders.
Events like this and others over the past few years force us to face the uncomfortable reality that racism and bias are prevalent and persistent. They also provide the impetus for us, as individuals and the Mines community, to reflect on who we are, what we stand for and what we should do going forward.
We are a caring community that has embraced and is working toward achieving the aspirations expressed in our strategic plan for diversity, inclusion and access. We naturally feel for victims of racism and bias, we hurt when members of our community are hurt and we have pledged to create a community that supports the education and careers of students, staff and faculty from all backgrounds.
Our Achilles heel is that many of us do not understand with depth the issues at play today. Most of us do not come from backgrounds where we have had to endure racism—either based on the color of our skin or our country of origin. This can make us blind to our biases and unable to see the actions we need to take to support the success of all members of our community. How many of us can imagine being raised with a deep-seated fear of law enforcement personnel or being concerned for our life when going out for a run? That is reality for some members of our community.
In response to current events, we wanted to do something more than just issue a campus note that expresses outrage or rejects persistent and systemic racism and promises a better future. We decided instead to use this opportunity to challenge ourselves as campus leaders and all of you as community members to learn how to be more effective advocates and allies for those who experience racism and to develop a deeper understanding of the law enforcement community.
Our Mines DI&A team will follow up with our plan for the former—they already have a list of resources for you to learn more, ways for us to take meaningful action and opportunities for new campus programming. Our Mines Police Department is taking the lead on the second topic. They will be sending an email telling us a little about themselves, their training and programs and the town hall-style discussion they envision that includes participants from our police department and local law enforcement professionals from surrounding communities.
In the last few months, we have seen how individual and collective action can flatten curves and change outcomes. As we have faced the COVID-19 pandemic, we have become adept at putting aside our own self-interests and acted on behalf of our neighbors and larger society. We have spent hours educating ourselves about a menacing threat and using that information to adjust both our actions and our thinking. We can do the same thing, climbing together, as we progress toward creating the community we aspire to have at Mines.
And, as always, we are interested in your thoughts and suggestions.
Stay well and stay safe, Orediggers,
Paul C. Johnson, President and Professor
Amy Landis, Professor and Presidential Faculty Fellow for Access, Attainment and Diversity
Dan Fox, Vice President of Student Life
Dustin Olson, Chief of Police and Director of Public Safety
Rick Holz, Provost and Professor
Kirsten Volpi, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
As protestors gather in cities around the country to express their outrage over the atrocity of George Floyd's death, and as we grieve other incidents of hate and violence perpetrated against people of color—from Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky to Tony McDade in Florida and Chris Cooper in New York, we are united in our anguish and anger.

To the Black members of our community who are hurting so badly, your friends and colleagues all wish we could ease your pain. We are heartbroken for the families of those who have died at the hands of hate and for those who have endured racist incidents they will never forget. We are heartbroken for those protestors who have come together to be heard and who have been met with violence. And we are heartbroken for the young people around our country who must be watching and reading the news and wondering, "When will it stop? When will it change?"

As President of Colorado State, I affirm that it is not enough to commit to being a university and a community where hate and bias and racism are not tolerated. We are committed to being anti-hate, anti-bias, and anti-racist.

And because I recognize the inadequacy of my words during this painful and uncertain time, I urge all of you to read the powerful statement that the Office of the Vice President for Diversity released this morning. I echo their words, in hope that doing so brings some comfort:

To our Black and African American community members: we see you and we are here for you. Our hearts are with you. Our words and actions are with you.
I am writing in both a personal and an institutional capacity. Like everyone, I have been reflecting on the events of the last week with an increasing sense of anguish at the human suffering we are witnessing and of alarm at the national crisis we are facing in our political system.

Until last Friday, I did not think it was possible for me to forget even for a moment that we are in the midst of an historic pandemic, bringing untold human loss and crossing a numerical threshold of unimaginable proportions. But the horrifying ending of the life of George Floyd, a citizen in the very system of justice intended to protect him, and us, which then, along with other recent tragic deaths, drew back the curtains on centuries of invidious discrimination against African Americans, and others, did that. My hopes for a renewed sense of national purpose to continue the heroic efforts of so many, over so many generations, to change once and for all that terrible course of history have been raised, and then deflated. We are at a point in our history where political leadership is not only absent but also disturbingly confounding of the fundamental norms and values that take years and years of hard and determined work to develop—and yet are always so fragile when pitted against the worst instincts of human nature. My concerns here are not partisan, but basic to our culture.

Like so many others here, I have chosen to dedicate my life to sustaining and building academic institutions, and my beloved Columbia, specifically. There is no question that the expectations of intellectual character we choose to live by in the academic world are extreme, and we cannot reasonably expect them to set the bar for ordinary political deliberations and interactions. But what we are seeing today—which unfortunately included just in the last week an unfounded attack on our research and researchers, as well as on the University itself-is at the opposite end of the spectrum. If this were a single incident, that would be one thing, but in the current way of behaving, these become acts of intimidation and dangerous mischaracterization of expertise, one of the hallmarks of a descent into authoritarianism.

In the face of all this, it is only a start to express empathy and solidarity with those in our community who are experiencing loss and apprehension. But I certainly do so here, on behalf of all of us. Universities are not perfect and we have to accept our share of responsibility for the state of affairs we have today. But we are determined, even more so now, to change and to be better. More than anything we will continue to provide the society and the world with all the knowledge we can preserve and create and with a new generation of citizens and leaders who are prepared to live by, and fight for, the values of respect for reason, the love of ideas, and the wish to use these to care for others. 

We say it often and we don’t say it lightly: one of Concordia’s greatest strengths is our diversity.

As a university with international reach, our thoughts are with Black communities across North America as yet another horrifying incident of racist police brutality exposes the terrible grip that systemic racism continues to wield in our contemporary world.

Before Concordia became the university it is today, events in the late 1960s at one of our founding institutions, Sir George Williams University, changed the discussion about racism in Canada. Our campus has long been known for its accessibility and openness, offering opportunities to individuals and communities who were not finding them elsewhere.

Concordia does not tolerate racism or violence of any sort. The university stands in solidarity with those who combat hatred in any form through peaceful means.

We will continue to promote our values of diversity, equity and respect on campus for all. We must also recognize that we are many voices at the university. We come from profoundly different backgrounds and social positions.

With this reality in mind, two years ago Concordia launched a three-phase consultation to develop a strategy for advancing Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) in all aspects of university life. It happens that right now we’re entering the final stage of that process and will be hosting consultation sessions this month to present our findings. 

This isn’t the time or place to recite the initiatives Concordia has undertaken to address racism. Instead, it is, unfortunately, another occasion to acknowledge that there is much more to do as we pursue our mission to create a more just society and brighter future for all through education.

Finally, we recognize that many members of the university community may need support right now. Concordia has people ready to listen.

    Please visit the International Students Office, Multi-Faith and Spirituality Centre, Health Services and/or Counselling and Psychological Services.
    Students can also call Empower Me at 1-844-741-6389 for 24/7 counselling support over the phone.
    Employees can contact the Employee Assistance Program at 1-800-663-1142 (English) or 1-866-398-9505 (French).

The events of the past week come at an especially trying time. It is customary to say of COVID-19 that we are all in this together. And we are. But the past several days are a stark reminder that the health of society also depends on other forms of collective vigilance.

     Like so many of you, my family and I have been reeling over the events of the past week – events for which words seem inadequate. The images we have seen and the sounds we have heard have horrified us and broken our hearts. We are ashamed of the injustices that are perpetrated in our country, every day, against people of color; and of the reality that 155 years after Cornell was founded to help heal the wounds of a broken nation, that nation is, in many ways, still so badly broken.

    The extraordinary times in which we are living are shining a spotlight on so many issues of equity, and the lack of it: on the ways that rights and opportunity are unevenly distributed across our society, and the worth of our labor and our lives unequally valued. As an academic community built on the bedrock values of diversity, inclusion, and openness, we have an obligation to ensure that the forces of these events and our feelings drive us not backward, but forward. Over these past days, the words that have resonated with me the most, as I have struggled with the question of how our community can best embrace our collective challenge, are those of the Rev. William J. Barber II, spoken to an empty church in Goldsboro, North Carolina, this past Sunday: "We cannot try to hurry up and put the screams and the tears and the hurt back in the bottle, just to get back to some normal that was abnormal in the first place. Hear the screams. Feel the tears. The very people who have been rejected over and over again are the ones who have shown us the possibility of a more perfect nation."

    Words are important. Words matter. But our words – of sympathy, of support, of shared pain – are not enough. While the challenges are enormous, and we cannot fix them on our own, that does not absolve us from taking whatever steps we can to fight against systemic racism and structural inequality. As a community, we can and must act, through our teaching, our research, and our engagement, to stand up for those who are oppressed or marginalized, to educate ourselves and others, and to work to ensure that we – our entire society – do better.

    Here are some of the things that Cornell will do immediately:

    Strengthen Community Involvement in Public Safety

    Cornell's Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) is composed of students, staff and faculty members who advise Cornell University Police on issues of public safety and victims' advocacy. The committee, which last met in April, makes recommendations to improve campus security policies and procedures and reviews issues that affect the overall safety and well-being of Cornell's diverse community. I have asked the PSAC to redouble their efforts to engage our community, with a specific focus on procedures and training in the areas of use of force, de-escalation techniques, and cultural competency.

    Summit with Regional Law Enforcement Agencies

    In addition to the work of the PSAC, the university administration has convened discussions in recent years with representatives of regional law enforcement agencies, including Cornell University Police, the Ithaca Police Department, the Tompkins County Sheriff's Office, and the New York State Police. These conversations have touched on shared interests, with a focus on understanding and sharing best practices around law enforcement interactions with communities of color. We will organize another session as soon as possible and include student, staff and faculty representatives in this important, ongoing conversation.

    Community Conversations on Race and Racism

    Using the community chat framework, the Office of Human Resources will be offering 75-minute Zoom sessions on topics such as institutional racism and the context of the current protests, ways to be an ally to our Black colleagues, and how to engage in proactive and meaningful dialogue around difficult topics such as racism. Details on the programs, and information on how to register, will be sent to all staff and faculty members by Vice President Mary Opperman early next week.

    Campus Community Book Read

    As a campus community, we have a collective responsibility to engage in difficult but critical conversations – to listen genuinely to, and learn from, one another. To help bring focus to these conversations, I invite all of you to participate in a Community Book Read of "How to Be an Antiracist," by National Book Award winner Ibram X. Kendi. We will soon provide all students, faculty, and staff with information about how to access an electronic copy of the book, along with a schedule of virtual discussions which will take place over the summer. I hope you will choose to read the book and to join in the conversation.

    Dialogue with Local Community Leaders

    I will be meeting next week with a diverse group of local elected, nonprofit, business, and faith community leaders to review the events of the last few weeks and consider how we might advance town-gown initiatives to further support the needs of our friends and neighbors.

    These plans are in addition to the ongoing work of the Belonging at Cornell framework that emerged from our diversity and inclusion initiatives, many of which were proposed by the President's Task Force on Campus Climate and/or the Provost's Task Force to Enhance Faculty Diversity. More than three-quarters of the goals laid out by the Task Force in 2018 have now been achieved, including the creation of a mandatory Intergroup Dialogue Project experience for all new undergraduates, an improved bias reporting process, implicit bias training for all faculty search committees, and increased support from the provost for faculty hires that advance diversity.

    All of this work will continue, but so much more needs to be done, at Cornell and beyond. I want to close by echoing the words of the Rev. Barber, in saying that there will be no return to "normal" from where we are right now. We are in a time of profound societal change – change that we, as a community and a society, have the power to influence and to shape. We can, and we will, rise to this challenge. Our own consciences demand it, as do our values as a community, and our ethos as Cornellians.
The amount of pain and suffering we are witnessing and feeling is only a snapshot of a broader social reality. We, and everyone before us, have had a role in arriving at where we are today. As such, it is of paramount importance to step up and take a stance. It is our responsibility and a moral imperative to not stand by and simply witness the events around us. We must collectively find our voice and reject racism and inequality. Silence perpetuates, doubt reinforces, and rationalization of incident after incident only compounds the pain so many in our society continue to endure.
While CRA has a long history of celebrating, promoting, and advocating for inclusivity, we cannot be satisfied with continuing the status quo. We will continue to actively stand against discrimination and hatred. We will find new ways to use our voice in Washington to advocate for policies that address the inequities that exist in our field. We will amplify the efforts of our membership organizations wherever we can to help them improve the spaces they occupy and create an environment that is more welcoming, just, and equitable to all. Only together can we begin to right the long history of wrongs that have led us to this place and time.

We start with acknowledging the issues by talking to those around us and explicitly stating that we stand with them when they stand against discrimination and hatred.
We know that racism:
•        Is systemic and institutionalized, was intentionally designed, and established well before the foundation of our nation.
•        Continues to oppress people of color around the world – denying basic human rights, denying opportunity, and even more tragically denying many of their very lives.
•        Is learned behavior that may be unlearned through education, compassion, empathy, and action.
•        Drives a wedge between communities, and in doing so limits the enviable quest for a society steeped in respect.
•        The privileged benefit from its existence and must be willing to sacrifice to overcome it.
•        Lives in our homes, schools, workplaces, parks, churches, stores, amusement parks, government, law enforcement – it lives in us all to varying degrees.
To stand against it, we:
•        Acknowledge the existence of racism within our communities and commit to defeating it.
•        Call out and reject rationalization of incidents and distortion of information.
•        Educate ourselves and those around us to be better equipped to address racism in its many forms.
•        Stand up against the status quo by using our voice and agency.
•        Commit to systemic change in laws, policies, procedures, etc.
•        Dedicate all necessary resources to create lasting change.

We stand in solidarity against racism and injustice. #BlackLivesMatter #CSforALL:  As CSforALL, we acknowledge that current systems are inherently flawed, biased, and unequal. Today, in solidarity with the fight against systematic racism and white supremacy, we say this with increased emphasis. CURRENT SYSTEMS ARE INHERENTLY FLAWED, BIASED, AND UNEQUAL.

We extend our support to ALL who are actively working to identify, change, repair, and replace the systems that cultivate inequity.

Educational equity can never exist in communities where life and liberty are not fundamental rights.

#BLACKLIVESMATTER 




The tragedy of George Floyd's death in Minneapolis is heartbreaking, yet all too familiar. From Trayvon Martin to Eric Garner to Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor, as well as earlier this week in Central Park, we have seen too many deaths and incidents of harassment perpetrated against the African American community. Racism and its deadly consequences are rooted in United States history. Slavery and its legacy live on, and these incidents make all too real the impact of this history.

In the past few weeks, we have witnessed the jarring violence of racism in images in the news and social media. Even in such unsettling times, these events are still occurring and prove that our country is still not immune to racism and the hatred it brings. These events cause grief, sadness, anger and frustration at our inability to conquer racism and protect our loved ones and our communities.

In our grief, let us pledge to work for change, to seek reform and to hold each other accountable for taking a stand against injustice. Let us work to become instruments of peace. As Dr. Reverend Martin Luther King once said, “Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate; only love can do that." In these times of darkness, let us protect and care for one another. The DePaul University community will stand together in solidarity against racism and hate.

At DePaul we are not indifferent when we see that the dignity of entire communities is not respected; whether it be through violent conflict, subtle discrimination, overt negligence of rights, or words and actions of hatred. These facts continue to generate anxiety and suffering, driving communities apart and putting peace, development and democracy under mounting pressure. We are DePaul, a united diverse community. Following the inspiration of St. Vincent de Paul, we promote, respect and protect the dignity of all.

For those who are struggling with recent events, I want to remind community members that University Counseling Services and the Religious Diversity and Pastoral Care offices are sources of support for those who seek assistance in these stressful times. 

We in the Drexel community are disheartened, disturbed and enraged by the pervasiveness of racism and violence against African Americans — most recently, George Floyd's senseless death in Minneapolis police custody, which prompted the demonstrations in Philadelphia and every other major city.

The tragedy of George Floyd's death, and the recent killings of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky, are just the latest examples of our nation's abject failure to address the root causes of inequality. At a time when the African American community is bearing a disproportionately heavy burden from the COVID-19 pandemic, this unrelenting racial violence against the black community exacts a tremendous physical and emotional toll.

We are living in what the American Psychological Association has described as a "racism pandemic" that exacts a heavy emotional toll. We understand that black individuals carry an additional burden of fear and anxiety, simply by nature of the color of their skin. As the APA states, "If you're black in America — and especially if you are a black male – it's not safe to go birding in Central Park, to meet friends at a Philadelphia Starbucks, to pick up trash in front of your own home in Colorado or to go shopping almost anywhere."

We are painfully aware that our campus community is suffering, and that anger and fear are dominating the lives of many of our students, faculty, professional staff and alumni. Many students in Philadelphia are on the front lines of peaceful protest in this city, and students who are home in other parts of the country are doing the same. They are rightly shocked when they are met with resistance. We are proud of their activism and courage, and we support their actions.

At times like this, it is imperative that we harness the values of our campus community to insist on change wherever we are, change in our country and change on our campus. As a university community, we can strive for an extra measure of compassion and understanding as we move forward to action. We can take the time to listen to one another, to have hard conversations about racism, to confront uncomfortable truths about ideologies of white supremacy, and to use what we learn to create an anti-racist campus free from intolerance and hatred. These dialogues are a first step to create a more equitable community as an ongoing aspiration for our University.

On Friday, June 5, at 12:30 p.m., we are opening up a space for dialogue about racism and the difficult path forward to become active allies in the fight against racism. We hope you will join this dialogue and let us know your plan to attend this inaugural virtual conversation by responding at this online link.

We call on all members of the Drexel community to insist on a more just and equitable future, and to speak out in peaceful but defiant resistance to the racial injustice endured by the African American community. We stand with the Drexel community — our students, faculty, professional staff, trustees and alumni – in calling for an end to the racism and discrimination in our country.

We hope you will join this dialogue on Friday and for future conversations, and we urge you to stay safe.
This week, as the United States passed the grim milestone of 100,000 lives lost to the coronavirus, the horrifying death of George Floyd has drawn national attention to fundamental and systematic disparities of justice in our nation. The events in Minneapolis have occurred on the heels of the murder of Ahmaud Arbery, the shooting of Breonna Taylor and in the context of the disproportionate impacts of COVID-19 on communities of color, including here in Durham. For many people at Duke and elsewhere, the pain, trauma and sense of hopelessness is overwhelming.

Every day, throughout our country, African American and other marginalized communities have their safety and dignity threatened—in their places of work, in public spaces, and in their homes and neighborhoods. This ongoing history of structural and sustained racism is a fundamental and deeply distressing injustice, here as elsewhere.

But we as a university must do more than recognize and grieve these circumstances; we must work together to change them.  In our Duke statement of values, we affirm our commitment to trust, respect, and inclusion. In that spirit, Duke University will continue the work of addressing generations of racism and injustice, of seeking ways to approach one another with respect, and of building communities that are truly safe, supportive, and inclusive for all.

My very best wishes to the entire Duke family in this troubling time.
The ECEP leadership team acknowledges that our work to broaden participation in computing will only have its full desired impact if we actively confront the systemic racism that has led to the current state of affairs in this country:
As advocates for equity in CS, we must, in both words and action, challenge the deeply ingrained structural racism permeating our culture and our educational systems. Real and lasting change will require ALL of us to dismantle structural inequities by engaging as allies and advocates for change.



As Emory leaders speak out against racist violence, the community will come together Friday, June 5, to unite for an anti-racist world.

A university-wide online solidarity vigil is set for 4 p.m. Friday. Earlier in the day, the Emory medicine community will hold "White Coats for Black Lives" events on the Emory Quadrangle and at six hospitals. Masks and social distancing will be mandatory.

"All of us are grappling with the violent deaths of Georgia resident Ahmaud Arbery, Minneapolis citizen George Floyd, Kentucky citizen Breonna Taylor, and too many other instances of racism and violence against people of color," Emory President Claire E. Sterk said in a message sent to the Emory community May 30. "These senseless acts strike at the heart of Emory's commitment to upholding equity, diversity and inclusion. Now, more than ever, we must stand together against intolerance and racism." 

Sterk will speak at Friday's online solidarity vigil, which is hosted by the Office of Spiritual and Religious Life along with Campus Life. Other speakers include Carol Henderson, vice provost for diversity and inclusion and chief diversity officer; LaNita Campbell, director of the Office for Racial and Cultural Engagement; the Rev. Greg McGonigle, university chaplain and dean of religious life; and Olivia Johnson, a student in the Laney Graduate School.

The event will also include a reading from Jericho Brown, Emory's Winship Distinguished Research Professor in Creative Writing, who recently won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry. Attendees should register to attend and are encouraged to light a candle for those who have died.

 "The Emory community stands for justice in all aspects of our mission, and when confronted with hatred and prejudice, we must speak out," Sterk emphasized in her message. "Emory respects the dignity and value of all human beings, and our community will continue to engage in conversations that matter, no matter how difficult the dialogue, so that together, we might seek a more just and equitable world for all."

Emory President-elect Gregory L. Fenves, who takes the helm of the university Aug. 1, sent a message to the community June 2 reflecting on the tragedies of the past weeks and the protests in Atlanta and across the nation.

"The murder of George Floyd, under the knee of a police officer, horrified me as a human being and as an American," Fenves said. "Mr. Floyd's death, coming in the wake of so many other killings of African American citizens — including Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia — has unleashed anger and outrage about systemic racism that has not been addressed more than 60 years after the Civil Rights Movement started. We are still fighting the same battles and people have had enough — of racist violence, of organized hatred and of longstanding social inequities." 

But amid the despair, the Emory community has the ability to lead change "through education, research, health care and creative expression, but also by leading with your hearts," he continued, noting that he learned from his father that "it is our duty to speak up — to not be silent — so that injustice could be rooted out and overcome. 

"It is my hope, then, that the tragedy of George Floyd's murder and those before him will awaken us all to our deepest flaws and help us heal, change and create a better future, together," Fenves said.

Interim Provost Jan Love called on the Emory community to remember that "education is only one tool, but it is powerful" and to note that the university's motto — "the wise heart seeks knowledge" — "deliberately combines head and heart."

"Righteous rage is a healthy immediate emotion in response to the outrageous violence we are witnessing perpetrated against black people," Love said in June 3 message to the Emory community. "If you want to be part of meaningful, productive and life-giving change, definitely get mad, but then get busy. We all have work to do. Let's do it together."
White Coats for Black Lives

The Emory School of Medicine community will gather in seven locations earlier on Friday for "White Coats for Black Lives" events. Participants will kneel for 8 minutes and 46 seconds in remembrance of George Floyd, as well as countless other victims of racist violence. 

"Our aspirations for a racism-free world seem so very, very far away. For that, we should all be sad, angry, and at the same time energized to do all that we can to serve as forces of change to support each other, regardless of race, and to confront both racism and the racists who would seek to divide and damage," Emory Healthcare CEO Jonathan S. Lewin said in May 30 message. 

The events take place at 1 p.m. and all are welcome to attend; masks and social distancing will be mandatory. Locations include the following: 

    School of Medicine and Clifton Campus (EUH): Emory Quadrangle
    Emory University Hospital Midtown: Orr Building Courtyard
    Emory Saint Joseph's Hospital: Meditation Garden
    Emory Johns Creek Hospital: Classrooms A & B, Lower Level
    Emory Decatur Hospital: Front Plaza by the flagpole
    Emory Hillandale Hospital: Main Entrance
    Grady Memorial Hospital: Main Entrance on the corner of Jesse Hill and Gilmer Street





Our world is in pain, from ills both medically treatable and socially teachable. Florida Tech is proud to have one of the most diverse student populations of any U.S. university. Justice and equality are core principles that we value here, and education sheds light where there otherwise was darkness. I look forward to the conversations we will have as a community of learners when students arrive for fall classes. Until then, I hope that all of you stay safe and healthy, open your minds to ideas that make you uncomfortable, and always treat your fellow humans with dignity and respect.




We are going to keep this statement brief. Words are failing all of us in the wake of George Floyd's murder. When leaders reach for words like outrage, horror, or despair, they only do more damage when they are not matched by action. As James Baldwin once famously said, "I can't believe what you say, because I see what you do."

So, no words without action. We are determined to keep George Mason University true to its motto, to be a place of "freedom and learning."We will take whatever steps are necessary to ensure every member of Mason Nation, and every visitor to our campuses, is safe: physically safe, emotionally safe, culturally safe, and intellectually safe, to become who they want to be.

To do that, today we directed the senior leadership of Mason to conduct a thorough review of our academic, research, public service, student service, campus law enforcement, and alumni offerings that contribute to social justice, racial equity, and peaceful conflict resolution. And we have directed them also to root out areas where we have fallen short of our intentions, through either conscious or unconscious bias.

Where we have services and expertise to offer a hurting, grieving community, we will step up – to the Mason community, to northern Virginia, to the national capital region, and beyond. We simply will not allow this moment to divert Mason from the long-standing pursuit of access to excellence, which is our ultimate tool to fight the perpetuation of racism.

And where we learn we have failed the diverse community we so proudly serve, we will direct necessary resources to fill the void. The COVID-19 pandemic has put us under unprecedented financial duress, but nothing is more strategically or morally vital to our future than truly living up to our mission to be an "inclusive academic community committed to creating a more just, free, and prosperous world."

In the weeks and months ahead, we will have more to say about what we have to offer to advance social justice and healing, and about what changes we will make to improve how Mason will better serve the community and the nation as a whole. We invite you to stay tuned and be prepared to act with us.

Our nation is fighting two pandemics – the COVID-19 virus, and the pandemic of racism in America. George Mason University will address both with the same vigor and sense of urgency.
Like everyone in our community, I write to you today feeling sad and angry about the brutal killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor, along with the racist incident in Central Park. 

I cannot begin to fathom the hurt GW’s Black students, faculty and staff may be feeling. My heart goes out to all who are suffering and may not feel safe. 

Please know that we continue to offer support and resources and are planning some online community events that are referenced in this message from Vice Provost Caroline Laguerre-Brown and the Office of Diversity, Equity and Community Engagement.

While I wish we had the opportunity to host these conversations and support one another on campus, I know that we remain a strong community, and we will find ways to connect until our planned return to campus this fall. I look forward to working together—harnessing the power of the community that comprises this great institution—to address racism and injustice on our campus and in our society.
Like many of you, I have struggled to process the senseless, heartbreaking killing of George Floyd by a police officer in Minneapolis. It is hard not to see a pattern of violence against black people when this tragic death comes on the heels of Ahmaud Arbery’s shooting right here in Georgia, Breonna Taylor’s in Kentucky, and so many others before them across our country. I acknowledge the pain many members of our community are feeling, and I stand in solidarity with our African American brothers and sisters and all people of goodwill, as we find a path forward.

There is much soul-searching we need to do as a society. We all share in the responsibility to deliver on our foundational belief that all people are created equal and are endowed with the same fundamental rights. While we demand change from those with the power to enact it, we must also ask what each of us can do to make good on that promise. And that includes all of us at Georgia Tech.

For the past few months, we have worked together on a new vision of inclusion, public service, and impact. That vision requires that we open the doors of opportunity to more people of underrepresented backgrounds. That we reduce barriers of access that still persist and that have nothing to do with talent. That we reject the status quo and do better. That we listen to and work with our students to create a more inclusive environment where people of all backgrounds can learn and grow. That we educate students who can think critically about the society we live in and can lead us to a better place.

As scholars and researchers, we need to ask ourselves how the science and technology we advance and the theories and solutions we propose help all of us live better lives. As alumni and leaders in business and society, we need to hold ourselves to a higher standard of equal opportunity, inclusivity, and impact.

Last September, we had the privilege to meet, listen to, and honor the first four African American students in the Institute’s history. That day helped me better appreciate our long struggle to become more just and inclusive — and how, by being more just and inclusive, we have become much stronger. Today, we must reflect on how much further we have to go.

I encourage all of us at Georgia Tech to be true to our motto of Progress and Service, to deliver on our mission to develop leaders who advance technology and improve the human condition. Those aren’t just words on a page. We have a responsibility to our campus community, to our local community, and to our nation to help change our world for the better. We have a responsibility to empower and include more people, backgrounds, and perspectives in the process.
The senseless killings of Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd have brought forward understandable pain and anger about racism and violence against black Americans. There is no place for racism and violence in our society or at Georgia State.

As a society and a nation, we must be better. The racism and violence that plague our society must stop, and the healing must begin.

Atlanta‘s many decades of peaceful protest and advocacy for social justice have resulted in real and positive change in our society. Georgia State is an example of that change. Racial exclusion was replaced with inclusion, and racism was replaced with black students excelling as academic and community leaders. We’re on the right track, and through continued hard work and sustained commitment we will together help bring an end to the pain and injustice that ail our society.

Now, I ask each and every member of the Georgia State community to stand in solidarity in rejecting racism and violence and to commit to building a better future where opportunity is real and just.


The current state of affairs in our nation today saddens and
enrages me.  Equal justice under the law
is a cornerstone of liberty, but this was not the case with Mr. George
Floyd.  He was murdered by a white
Minneapolis policeman who put his knee on Mr. Floyd's neck until he died.  The policeman in question and those who stood around and watched this crime being committed have now been arrested, but
should have been arrested immediately. 
It is my hope that they will all be prosecuted to the fullest extent of
the law. 
As president of Hampton University and one who witnessed and
participated in the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950's and 1960's, I am
pleased to see those who have initiated peaceful protests expressing their
concerns about police brutality, particularly towards African Americans.  During the late 1950's and 1960's, I participated
in marches and other peaceful protests that were led by Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr.  I was also the vice-president of a statewide student Civil Rights organization. 
My father was a building contractor and Civil Rights
leader.  Therefore, our household was one of those homes that was a meeting place for the local organizations.  It also served as a rest stop for out of town
travelers who could not use public accommodations because of the racism of the
time.  For those travelers, most of these
visits occurred on the weekends and might include a meal, a glass of tea or
lemonade, a nap on the living room sofa, or an overnight stay.  Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. visited several
times although I do not recall him spending the night.  His brother Rev. A. D. King was a frequent
visitor and overnight guest.  Their
visits always included interesting conversations.  I shall forever be indebted to my father for
allowing me to sit in on some of those meetings.  He gave me permission to be present with the
proviso that I could not ask a question, venture an opinion, or otherwise
speak.  As he would say, "You are to
listen and learn."
In these meetings, there were conversations about successes,
failures, problems, promises, and plans for progress in the Civil Rights
Movement.  Some of the attendees urged
the abandonment of peaceful demonstrations and encouraged violent responses
that matched the batons, bullets, hoses, and dogs used by police against
us.  Dr. King spoke out strongly against
the use of these tactics.  He felt that
it would hurt our cause, and he was proven right.  In that same vein, I think that our cause is
hurt today when we focus more on retaliation and less on seeking police reform
and justice.
While peaceful protestors rally to make their voices heard,
the violence, looting, and destruction of property are not the solution. These
acts hinder the cause of justice that so many are seeking.  Peaceful demonstration is a part of African
American history, but engaging in the above-mentioned acts hurts our cause. To
be sure, there will be criticism for those of us who believe in peaceful
protest to achieve desired goals and objectives.

 

I do not have all of the answers, but three specific
thoughts come to mind.   First, now is
the time for us to again come together in our homes and churches to have
conversations about how we can move forward as a people and as a nation to end
police brutality against African Americans. Secondly, every municipality in the
country should establish a colloquium board to facilitate dialogue between
representatives of the police and the African American community to include
ministers, educators, organizational leaders, and other citizens of
good-will.  Thirdly, every state and
local police academy as well as other providers of law enforcement officers
should establish a mandatory class on policing in the African American
community.

 

While I cannot claim to know all of the answers to these
problems nor the timeline for resolution, I do know that nothing can be
accomplished unless we work together for the betterment of ourselves, our
communities, and our nation. Until this happens, justice will not served.  All of us must understand the immorality of
racism as we support the victims of racial discrimination.





The last several months have been disorienting for all of us. COVID-19 has profoundly disrupted the lives of people worldwide. It has caused more than 365,000 deaths around the globe and more than 100,000 in the United States alone. Forty million Americans have lost their jobs, and countless others live in fear of both the virus and its economic consequences.

In the midst of this incomprehensible loss, our nation has once again been shocked by the senseless killing of yet another black person—George Floyd—at the hands of those charged with protecting us. Cities are erupting. Our nation is deeply divided. Leaders who should be bringing us together seem incapable of doing so.

I cannot help but think back to 1968, the spring of my junior year in high school. First, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, then Bobby Kennedy. Riots broke out in nearby Detroit, as they did across the country. Then, like now, our nation was hugely polarized, and we desperately struggled to find common ground that might unite us. 

At the time, hope was in short supply. It seemed difficult to imagine how we would move forward, but we did. As I think about the challenges that we face today, I return again and again to what I believe:

I believe in the goodness of the people of this country—and in their resilience.

I believe that all of us, liberal and conservative, Democrat and Republican, whatever our race or ethnicity, want a better life for our children.

I believe that America should be a beacon of light to the rest of the world.

I believe that our strength as a nation is due in no small measure to our tradition of welcoming those who come to our shores in search of freedom and opportunity, individuals who repay us multiple times over through their hard work, creativity, and devotion to their new home. 

I believe in the American Dream.

I believe in the Constitution, the separation of powers, the First Amendment—especially the right to a free and independent press that holds those in power accountable, and to a free and independent judiciary.

I believe in the 14th Amendment’s guarantee of equal protection of the laws—for everyone, not just for those who look like me.

I believe that no person is above the law regardless of the office they hold or the uniform they wear. Those who break the law must be held accountable.

I believe that one measure of the justness of a society is how it treats its most vulnerable members.

I believe we must provide opportunity to those who may not encounter it on their own so that they may achieve their full potential.

I believe in the power of knowledge and ideas to change the world, of science and medicine to defeat disease, of the arts and humanities to illuminate the human condition.

This is just some of what I believe. I hope you will pause during these troubled times to ask what you believe. Even more importantly, I hope you will find the strength and determination to act on your beliefs—to repair and perfect this imperfect world. Those of us privileged to work or study at a place like this bear special responsibilities. As Luke teaches us, from those to whom much is given, much is expected.


Recent months have cast a long shadow as the pandemic continues its deadly toll on the nation ravaging Black, Brown and Native American communities in particular.   And in the midst of such anguish, the images of Black Americans treated without humanity and – in some cases – brutalized in the last moments of their earthly lives' triggers waves of emotion including staggering grief and righteous anger.   

This constant attack on the Black experience must end.

I am the proud father of two precocious teenagers.  Like many parents we have very purposely had "The Talk"– the unwelcome but necessary conversation about how to prepare for engagement with law enforcement. Watching these modern-day examples of social injustice and unrest in the presence of my 15-year-old son has brought up some difficult conversations. He reminded me of a time when we were heading to campus and were pulled over. I personally don't recall all the details of that stop. However, my son vividly remembers the anger he felt as a result of the interaction. Upon seeing the news out of Minneapolis, he turned to me and asked, "Dad, should I just fall to the ground if a cop approaches me?"Praying for the right words to say, I told him that he should remain calm and try to express himself to the best of his ability. Yet, even after struggling through that conversation, the myriad names of innocent Black lives taken through lethal force  – young and old, men and women –  testify to the insufficiency of that advice. 

This moment of compounding crises leaves little doubt that the daily experience of so many in our community remain marked by heightened vulnerability and a likelihood to encounter deadly force at the hands of misguided individuals or those whose bigoted views betray the oaths they swore to protect and serve.  

Howard University emerged from the ashes of the American Civil War, a conflict that raised but hardly resolved the racial divide in this nation.  Firmly rooted in a promise that offered the transformative power of education to all, Howard has consistently taught that the highest use of knowledge gained at the Mecca is demonstrated in service above self; focused on addressing systematic injustices and entrenched interests antagonistic to our enjoyment of life and liberty.  Our scholars have enlightened, our physicians have healed, our lawyers have advocated, our activists have agitated, our entrepreneurs have built, our counselors have comforted, and our artists have enriched even life itself.

Our nation would be a shadow of itself and remain as imperfect as it was at its inception without the contributions of Howard University and all it stands for. 

In the context of current events there must always be accountability for all found responsible through a fair and thorough investigation so that justice is served. Yet even as we see individual perpetrators on our screens, we must remain mindful that the distorted worldviews and ugly biases have too often been codified into inequitable or predatory systems are equally culpable.  The book of Ephesians reminds us "For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places."

We were born for such a time as this. And I am convinced that institutions like Howard University are destined to continue to build, mold and train the leaders who will help bring needed change to the structures of our society.

No pandemic, no declining economy, no period of prosperity, and no cure for every medical ailment will undo or hide the realities of the Black experience. We must bring consistency to that struggle and focus our intellect and passion daily to prepare for the hard work that must be done to confront evil and systematic oppression. 

As students: remain vigilant about your studies. You are matriculating through Howard University for a purpose that is greater than yourselves. You are the hope of our ancestors and despite the new challenges that will come our way, each day that you remain resolved to focus on your destiny is a day that brings us closer to resolution to many of our world's dilemmas.

As faculty: continue to focus our energies and concern on our students so that they would be nurtured, thrive and excel. We all are intricately woven into the fabric of the Howard University legacy.  Keep researching, writing, and speaking out to craft solutions to the contemporary challenges we face.  We must be diligent in our work and conversations with students to hear and walk with them through these trying times. 

Let's not forget that we are all living these experiences in our daily lives outside of Howard. It is everywhere that we are. Let's first start by not looking past each other wherever we may be and work on actively loving each other. 

In this moment it is necessary to grieve over another life taken unnecessarily and those who loved him who are now broken and left behind to mourn.  It's okay to be angry. It's okay to be sad. It's okay to feel numb. Stay there as long as you need to. I encourage you to take those feelings and channel them into something durable. Write about it. Sing about it. Participate in the electoral process and vote about it. 

We must remember the names of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Atatiana Jefferson, Breonna Taylor and the countless other lives gone too soon.  

We can honor their memories through a life of purpose in confronting and correcting those skewed systems until they respect the humanity and inherent dignity in each of us.

You have noticed that we haven’t posted much lately. As Black Women, we are taking time away from social media for self-care and processing these events individually.
We hope that you are too doing what you can to protect your peace.
{Self-care resources in Bio}

The IEEE Computer Society is, and remains, strongly committed to equity, diversity, and inclusion and we see no place for hatred and discrimination in our communities. Equity, diversity, and inclusion are central to the goals of the Computer Society and all of our activities. We are proactively supporting diversity and inclusion with the creation of a new taskforce this year that will address ways the Computer Society can improve its mission to better serve those most under-represented in our community. However, we know there is more we can do to support these ideals of equity, diversity, and inclusion.

We are ready to listen. Please send your suggestions to inclusion@computer.org and your comments will be shared with Computer Society leadership and the Computer Society Diversity & Inclusion Task Force.



History teaches us that silence is acceptance. This isn't the time to be quiet. At #icsme2020, we strive to build a safe, diverse and inclusive environment. We support and uplift the Black voices in our community. Today—and always—we stand in solidarity with the Black community.

As the events following the tragic death of George Floyd in Minneapolis have created unrest in our city, state, and nation, I want to reaffirm our unwavering support of our students, faculty, staff, alumni, and Bronzeville neighbors of African descent. Simply put, the university unequivocally condemns discrimination and violence against all African Americans within our community and across the country. 

The pain and outrage that many of us feel at this time is palpable. I reaffirm this university's ongoing and strong commitment against racism of all kinds. Our university is dedicated to peacefully working with our community to reject fear, violence, and injustice and to contribute to positive change in Chicago and in our nation. 

Our university was founded to bridge inequity in education and opportunity—and that informs every aspect of who we are as a university. As outlined in our Statement on Community, Inclusion, and Diversity, "We embrace the contributions that differences offer."

Please stay safe during this difficult time.
****video message***
Like many of you, I have followed the events in Minneapolis and the demonstrations in cities around the nation in response to the tragic death of George Floyd with a mixture of deep sadness, frustration, anger and disappointment. My heart goes out to all those feeling pain and anguish over this senseless death and to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives in the protests of recent days or who have suffered loss and damage in other ways. It is truly difficult to comprehend this tragedy and to find the right words to console the many people, especially members of the African-American community, who are hurting right now and hoping that justice will ultimately be served.  

To echo IU Vice President James Wimbush, who eloquently expressed his sadness and great concern earlier today on the reaction, in his home city of Indianapolis, to George Floyd’s death, the list is far too long of those black and brown individuals who have been subjected to disturbing violence in recent years. This list underscores the racism, bigotry, intolerance and hatred that too many members of our society, especially people of color, are forced to confront on a daily basis. It also draws our attention to the deeply disturbing growth in recent years here and around the world in the number of hate groups, as well as the immensely concerning increase in the number of acts of hatred and violence against minorities.

Here at IU, students of color now make up more than a quarter of the university’s total enrollment. Hence what is happening in Minneapolis and other cities around the nation serves as a powerful reminder that we have a special obligation to work to ensure that our campus communities are places where differences of all kinds, whether of race, ethnicity or belief, are respected, valued and protected, and where hatred, bigotry and intolerance will be powerfully condemned.

We are all members of an educational community, and as such, we must always, as part of the very core of what we do, face the challenges inherent in understanding and evaluating the ideas, assertions and arguments that come from other perspectives, other traditions, other disciplines and other beliefs, as we pursue our fundamental mission of searching for knowledge and truth. At the same time, we cannot afford to ignore the lessons drawn from the serious and informed study of present-day racism and intolerance and their deep connections with centuries-old traditions of suspicion and hatred. Much important scholarship is taking place at IU in these areas, and that scholarship has never been more important.

We must continue to insist that there is absolutely no room at IU for discrimination or harassment based on anyone’s actual or perceived race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin or political beliefs. We see our diversity as one of our cardinal virtues. We are extremely proud of our students of color and their achievements – students who are such a vital part of the cultural and historical fabric of our institution, but we will have failed them if we cannot provide to them campus environments where they feel safe, supported and respected. 

In the days and months ahead, we must strongly reaffirm Indiana University’s fundamental commitment to diversity and equity. We must condemn those who seek to divide us based on race, ethnicity, national origin and other areas. We must join together as a strong and vigorous educational community to be inclusive, supportive and welcoming to all. And we must always stand up for what is good and right.

#BlackLivesMatter is not just a cardboard sign. White educators and PD providers: you have a role in ending systemic oppression. Have conversations about race in your classroom. Embed Black history in culturally sensitive curricula. Work to abolish the school-to-prison pipeline --see the effects of policing on yr own students. Support students as they work thru racial trauma. Really ask yourself what "equity" means in your work. No matter whether you can do it in the streets, you can in the classroom. https://twitter.com/trussleaders…/status/1267333391604527104
Like many of you, I have followed the events in Minneapolis and the demonstrations in cities around the nation in response to the tragic death of George Floyd with a mixture of deep sadness, frustration, anger and disappointment. My heart goes out to all those feeling pain and anguish over this senseless death and to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives in the protests of recent days or who have suffered loss and damage in other ways. It is truly difficult to comprehend this tragedy and to find the right words to console the many people, especially members of the African-American community, who are hurting right now and hoping that justice will ultimately be served.  

To echo IU Vice President James Wimbush, who eloquently expressed his sadness and great concern earlier today on the reaction, in his home city of Indianapolis, to George Floyd’s death, the list is far too long of those black and brown individuals who have been subjected to disturbing violence in recent years. This list underscores the racism, bigotry, intolerance and hatred that too many members of our society, especially people of color, are forced to confront on a daily basis. It also draws our attention to the deeply disturbing growth in recent years here and around the world in the number of hate groups, as well as the immensely concerning increase in the number of acts of hatred and violence against minorities.

Here at IU, students of color now make up more than a quarter of the university’s total enrollment. Hence what is happening in Minneapolis and other cities around the nation serves as a powerful reminder that we have a special obligation to work to ensure that our campus communities are places where differences of all kinds, whether of race, ethnicity or belief, are respected, valued and protected, and where hatred, bigotry and intolerance will be powerfully condemned.

We are all members of an educational community, and as such, we must always, as part of the very core of what we do, face the challenges inherent in understanding and evaluating the ideas, assertions and arguments that come from other perspectives, other traditions, other disciplines and other beliefs, as we pursue our fundamental mission of searching for knowledge and truth. At the same time, we cannot afford to ignore the lessons drawn from the serious and informed study of present-day racism and intolerance and their deep connections with centuries-old traditions of suspicion and hatred. Much important scholarship is taking place at IU in these areas, and that scholarship has never been more important.

We must continue to insist that there is absolutely no room at IU for discrimination or harassment based on anyone’s actual or perceived race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin or political beliefs. We see our diversity as one of our cardinal virtues. We are extremely proud of our students of color and their achievements – students who are such a vital part of the cultural and historical fabric of our institution, but we will have failed them if we cannot provide to them campus environments where they feel safe, supported and respected. 

In the days and months ahead, we must strongly reaffirm Indiana University’s fundamental commitment to diversity and equity. We must condemn those who seek to divide us based on race, ethnicity, national origin and other areas. We must join together as a strong and vigorous educational community to be inclusive, supportive and welcoming to all. And we must always stand up for what is good and right.



Johns Hopkins University and Medicine shared a message Sunday in solidarity against racism. The message responds to the rise of anti-Asian discrimination during the coronavirus pandemic and the deaths of African Americans that have sparked recent protests in cities across the U.S., including in Baltimore.

Johns Hopkins released the following statement:

Dear Members of the Johns Hopkins Community,

In the past three months, across the U.S. and around the globe, we have experienced extraordinary challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In communities of which Johns Hopkins is a part—from Baltimore City, Washington, D.C., Prince George's, Howard, and Montgomery Counties to St. Petersburg, Florida, and many more—we have witnessed our African American, Latinx, Native American, and poverty-stricken communities disproportionately dying from COVID-19, while our Asian and Asian American communities have been targeted with vitriol because of the disease's origins. People have lost family members, and the economic impact of this pandemic has led to many people having lost their jobs.

This has been a tremendous burden for many to bear. The recent death of George Floyd in Minneapolis as well as the deaths of Breonna Taylor, a first responder in Louisville, Kentucky, shot in her own bed while sleeping; Ahmaud Arbery, shot while jogging near Brunswick, Georgia; and far too many others reinforce the brutal truth that the African American community still remains vulnerable to senseless violence, even during a pandemic. For those of us in Baltimore, these tragedies also call to mind the death of Freddie Gray while in police custody five years ago. And this moment serves as a reminder of the compounding effects on our communities.

Because we are all intricately connected by our common humanity, if one segment of our community is hurting, it adversely impacts all of us. This is not just an issue for African Americans; it is an issue that threatens the future for all Americans.

We hear the needs of the Johns Hopkins community to have an honest dialogue about these issues and develop steps to address them through our daily activities and relationships, scholarship and teaching, and health care delivery and leadership. We must acknowledge that these vulnerabilities to violence and health crises faced by black and brown communities are born out of continued racial disparities in education, employment, housing, and criminal justice. To that end, under the leadership of the JHM Office of Diversity and Inclusion and in collaboration with other groups across Johns Hopkins, we will host a Journeys in Healing symposium series, "The Language of the Unheard: A Virtual Town Hall on Racial Injustice," in early June. More details will follow once dates have been solidified.

We also recognize and acknowledge the anguish that these recent incidents are causing for our faculty, students, staff, trainees, and alumni across the Johns Hopkins family. We encourage you to access the many supportive services available. At JHM, these services include mySupport, Spiritual Care and Chaplaincy, the Office of Well-Being, the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, and the JHM Office of Diversity and Inclusion. University affiliates can reach out to mySupport, find student wellness resources at wellness.jhu.edu or on the Student Outreach and Support site, or contact the Office of Institutional Equity for assistance.

During this time of immense challenge, let us work together to be a light to facilitate education, healing, connection, support, and service to each other and to our community.


Open Letter to the Students of Johnson C. Smith University

The World Needs YOU Now More Than Ever 
In the midst of a pandemic that has affected nearly every continent on earth, that has exposed and laid bare the inequalities borne most heavily by the poor and underserved of our community; we now find this country in the midst of facing once again the harsh reality of the legacy of racism, the seeds of which were planted over 400 years ago on this continent. In the last several weeks we have witnessed Ahmaud Arbery's senseless killing while jogging in Georgia; black delivery men in an Oklahoma gated community being held against their will for failing to answer the questions of two white men who questioned the delivery men's right to have entered their enclave; a white female New York City investment banker call the police on a black man who merely asked that she follow the law and leash her dog while in Central Park; and most recently, the shocking death of George Floyd as a white police officer kneeled on his neck for over 8 minutes, literally two minutes after he had already gasped his last breath.

The cumulative effect of these events and similar events, which occurred in years past, has led to understandable frustrations that ask the question: When will this end? The insidious nature of racism suggests that it may not be soon, but it is my hope that you and your peers at institutions of higher education throughout this country, especially those attending HBCUs, will lead this country to a new understanding of its obligations to ensure that the inequality gap does not continue to expand and that we make certain all members of society have the opportunities to reach their full potential.

Two weeks ago, 70 HBCUs, including Johnson C. Smith University, participated in a nationwide commencement celebration. President Barack Obama was among the many people who offered words of wisdom to our graduates.  I am reminded of something he said in making an observation of the state of the world and the significance of the graduates being honored that day. To paraphrase, he said: "We need you now, more than ever!" I wholeheartedly agree with President Obama.  It is critical that your voices are heard; your perspectives are seen; and your experiences are acknowledged in helping to examine, explore and resolve many of the stresses that are threatening to rip the fabric of our society apart.

I know the events of the last few days may have you confused and wondering where is your place in the world.  I would amplify President Obama's call to you: We need you now, more than ever!  And we, the faculty, staff, administration and Trustees of JCSU stand ready, willing and able to prepare you to take on the issues of injustice and inequality facing this country and the world.

Stay safe! We are looking forward to the day when we can reconvene on campus as the unified, resilient and strong community that we are. 

Sincerely,

Clarence D. Armbrister signature

Clarence D. Armbrister, J.D.

President
As we work to reawaken our university community from our COVID-19 isolation, we also must contend with social injustice issues plaguing our country. At the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, around the country, we witnessed acts of prejudice toward those from China and other Asian countries. Now, we are witnessing protests over the killing of black and Latino individuals by law enforcement officers. This is clearly no time to be silent on issues of social justice.

A number of K-State faculty and staff have meaningfully engaged the Kansas higher education community in dialogue on these matters. We believe, unapologetically, that there is nothing to debate. Social injustice is alive and well and more often than not, finds its way to the doorsteps and lives of individuals in the most marginalized communities.

We recognize these acts of injustice may not have taken place on our campuses or in our communities, but they can still have a profound impact on our community members. Our students, faculty, staff and administrators are affected by these acts of injustice. In some cases, members of our community may think this could happen to them, their family members or their friends.

The Kansas State University Police Department is dedicated to our community and strives to earn our confidence and respect. We know this respect is hard-won and can be easily lost — it only takes one incident to erase years of goodwill. Our officers are highly professional and well trained in how to interact with our community members. We have confidence they endeavor to uphold our community values. In this time of strife, they also deserve our continued respect and support. 

At Kansas State University, we affirm the inherent dignity and value of every person and strive to maintain an atmosphere of justice based on respect for each other. We understand the impact these acts of social injustice have on marginalized communities and their allies. We stand with you and we ask our community members to demonstrate the empathy, sympathy and social responsibility that reflects the same accountability we expect of those entrusted to protect and serve.

Those who have been impacted by recent events are encouraged to contact Student Life or Counseling Services by calling 785-532-6927.

Social injustice has always been with us, but we must stand up for what's right and support those who feel threatened or marginalized.
We all have spent much of the last few days watching as the nation mourns the death of George Floyd. We join the nation in mourning. Our collective sorrow remembers Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery, two African Americans also killed this year. Our grief and pain also are tied to the reality that African Americans along with other marginalized communities are disproportionately impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Closer to home, two members of our beloved Golden Flashes community, state Sen. and Kent State Associate Professor of Political Science Vernon Sykes and state Rep. and Kent State alumna Emilia Strong Sykes, received threats related to their duties as elected state officials. Additionally, on May 3, an individual known to authorities for his anti-Semitic views was heard asking a store clerk in Stow the location of Kent State and made comments that could be perceived as threatening to the Jewish community. Fortunately, the individual did not make it to Kent and was arrested on another charge.

In recent statements by both Black United Students and the Undergraduate Student Government, these issues are on the minds of many of our student leaders who are actively working toward a vision of equity and justice that will shape a better future.

It is the hope and aspirations of our students, combined with the history and lessons of May 4, 1970, that remind us of the need to study the root causes of current troubles as we search for a better future. We are called to learn more about the structures, histories, assumptions, prejudices and cultures that lead to disparate outcomes in healthcare, in the judicial system and in myriad aspects of our lives. We are thankful that our Kent State historians, sociologists, public health professors, Peace and Conflict Studies and Pan-African Studies professors, and many, many others are participating in these national conversations. Understanding and improving the world we inhabit are central to what we do at Kent State, as is our commitment to kindness and respect in all that we do.

As we work to reopen our university safely, let us remember that many of our community members live daily with injustices that inflict pain, trauma and a host of other emotions. As Golden Flashes, we ask that you recommit yourselves to the promotion of equity and justice and continue to lift up our institutional values of respect, kindness and purpose. We appreciate each of you and look forward to continuing the work of making our community equitable and inclusive for all.





The recent tragic events in Minneapolis around the death of George Floyd, as well as other incidents of violence inflicted upon African Americans in our country, have shocked the nation and deeply affected all of us.  Our deepest sympathies go out to the family and loved ones of Mr. Floyd and the families and friends of those who have lost their lives to other horrific and senseless acts of racism. These events further demonstrate our need to stand together as a community and take ownership of our obligation to fight against the systemic discrimination and racial disparities that continue to plague our nation.

As members of the Lehigh University community, we must affirm our values—equality, peaceful dialogue, the free exchange of ideas and the encouragement of respectful debate—and support the condemnation and repudiation of systemic discrimination, hate and intolerance and their violent manifestation. We must continue to affirm our shared responsibility to fight ignorance, model inclusive excellence and embrace the power of diversity.

It is our shared responsibility to work together to create a society in which discrimination and racism are no longer tolerated.  We must play an active role in understanding, candidly engaging in dialogue, and solving the problems of racial inequity and injustice.

While I would not presume to speak about the experience of African Americans, I know African Americans in the Lehigh community are feeling anger, outrage and fear in the wake of the violence we have witnessed. I once again ask that we as a Lehigh community recommit to our shared values; reject hatred, bigotry and intolerance; and reflect on what each of us can do, large or small, and how we can come together with hope and determination to create a more just, actively inclusive and equitable community.




I recall, back in early January, thinking about the powerful imagery of the year 2020 and imagining a world where we would have a better and more acute vision of our collective humanity. 

Now, nearly midway through this year, the quest appears even more pressing. Collectively, we are facing the challenge of a lifetime. In the midst of a pandemic, we watch as people across North America mobilize against injustice and racism, provoked in particular by the tragic death of George Floyd one week ago.

Feelings of sadness, anger, fear, and a sense of helplessness are shared by all of us. I recognize that many members of our community, especially our Black students, faculty, and staff, may need support at this time; resources are listed below. 

Yet, in this turbulent moment, it remains critical to remember that our strength lies in our unity and in living the principles that McGill embraces in its mission. Among those principles are equity and inclusiveness. Living these principles means going beyond publicly denouncing racism and other forms of social injustice. We are also called to consider how universities have the responsibility, to confront and work to flatten social inequities through dialogue and the advancement of knowledge. Every one of us shares in this responsibility as we live through a moment in history that calls for leadership and action anchored to knowledge, compassion, and courage.

We are living during a time of profound hurt, anger, frustration and, for many, a time of deep disappointment and despair regarding the recent high-profile violent events targeting Black Americans – the most recent being the inescapable images of George Floyd, dying while a police officer knelt on his neck.   

The shocking events in Minnesota, as well as too many other similar killings in communities including Ahmaud Arbery, killed while jogging, and Breonna Taylor, who was shot to death by police raiding her home, bring much pain, anger and trauma to many members of our community, and we cannot let them go unnoticed or unacknowledged. They are incomprehensible. Unjust. Inhumane.  

First and foremost, as leaders of this university, it is important that we speak out against these atrocities. To our Black students, faculty and staff, know that we both stand with you. The university stands with you.

It is important, as Spartans, that we collectively understand and acknowledge the impact of racism and that the Black community is under attack in many ways right now. In addition to the recent deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and so many others who are targeted because of their skin color, we have a global health pandemic that is powerfully and incontrovertibly revealing the inequities in our society.  

All of this is taking a heavy emotional toll on many of our friends, families and fellow Spartans. These events remind us that we have a responsibility to engage in the work necessary to understand we live in a diverse world and a diverse campus community, and by virtue of this we also have a responsibility to each other to respond to these injustices – acknowledge them, empathize with one another and accept each other.

We are committed to building an inclusive environment here at MSU, one that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. However, this commitment must be manifested in ways that extend well beyond words. We hope you will do what you can as students, faculty and staff at MSU to fight racism, disrupt injustice and actively support each other. The next several months will test our resolve, our community and our nation. 
****tweeted image**



During the past weeks and months, disturbing, racially charged situations and tragic deaths have occurred across the U.S. – including Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, Christian Cooper and most recently George Floyd. We are now witnessing protests in cities across the U.S., some of which have been marked by violence.

On our own campus we also recently experienced the impact of racially charged posts on social media made by incoming freshmen.

One student posted a disturbing video to My Story on Snapchat. A person in the My Story group re-posted it on Twitter. Perhaps the intent of the video can be debated. Its impact cannot.

Another student used an offensive racial slur while engaging in a social media exchange with a black student from her high school.

Many of you have reached out to share the hurt, anger and disbelief you experienced upon watching the video. It demonstrates a disturbing lack of empathy and respect for the death of Mr. Floyd, his family and others who have suffered similarly while in police custody.

Many others have expressed anger and disbelief at the nature and tone of the hurtful social media posts.

After seeing these social media posts and viewing the video, I, too, was horrified. My first impulse was to rescind the offer of admission to these students. But then I was reminded of a couple of things.

Missouri State University is a public university with a public affairs mission.

As a public university we are legally required to uphold the principles of free speech embodied in the First Amendment to the Constitution. The video – as hurtful, insensitive and offensive as it is – is protected by the First Amendment, as was the language in the social media posts.

I will admit that it was tempting to ignore the First Amendment in this case. Doing so would violate our legal obligations but, more importantly, it would effectively prevent the university from accomplishing its mission.

Missouri State has a responsibility to educate students on the three pillars of our public affairs mission – ethical leadership, community engagement and cultural competence. The video and the social media posts clearly reveal that these students – and, let’s be honest, many of us – are in desperate need of education, training and experiences that will help us develop cultural consciousness as well as cultural competence.

We cannot expect or require that students come to us fully formed, possessing all of the skills and characteristics that exemplify Citizen Scholars. It is our job and our duty to help them develop these traits through education and exposure.

Recognizing the impact of the video and the social media post, these students have chosen to withdraw from the university. We had planned to allow them to join our campus community in the fall, knowing that this decision would be ridiculed, questioned and second-guessed. But it was under the conditions that they participate in additional education and training to assist them in both understanding the impact of their actions and in developing cultural competence.

Social media is rife with opportunities to damage reputations or hurt thousands of people with one statement or one video. It is important that we are all mindful of its impact and if we choose to participate, to think very carefully before we post.

As one might expect, these students have been bombarded with hate, ridicule and even death threats. Both are 18 years old. While they displayed poor judgement, they don’t deserve to have their lives threatened.

As a university, we are acutely aware that many of our incoming students of all backgrounds may have made poor choices when posting on social media when they were teenagers. These are formative years when people change and grow. As a university, we are not going to police everyone’s social media accounts. We legally cannot and, in my opinion, should not bar a student from entry for offensive comments posted as an adolescent. I believe in grace, redemption and the probability that a college education can change people for the better. It did me.

That being said, we will continue to educate our students on the three pillars of our public affairs mission. And given the current environment, we will continue to give special emphasis to the awareness, knowledge and skills required to be culturally competent in a global society and world.

Thank you for all you do for Missouri State.
We have no tolerance for discrimination or acts of hate in our community. No matter where you come from, no matter your race, gender, identity, preference or perspective, we all come together to learn, and everyone deserves to be treated with respect and to thrive.
At MIT, Commencement is the most beautiful day of the year. Even in this strange pandemic moment, this afternoon’s graduation celebration will offer us all the opportunity to celebrate the wonderful spirit, character and accomplishments of our newest graduates.

That joy is and should be perfect and untouchable.

But I write with a heart that is also full of anguish – because it is impossible to face this particular day without an overwhelming sense of concern for our nation.

The death of George Floyd and the events unfolding in Minneapolis are deeply disturbing in themselves. And of course, they come on the heels of highly charged incidents, from Georgia to New York, that highlight yet again the tragic persistence of racism and systemic injustice in the United States.

I know that the pain of these events is especially intense for certain members of our community, beginning with those who are African American and of African descent, though certainly not ending there. And I know that, in this time of tension around the pandemic and rising strains in US-China relations, others in our community are also suffering distinctive forms of harassment and discrimination.

I imagine that you may share my urgent desire to help, while feeling an awful powerlessness to do so. At this moment, let’s do what we can. I believe a place to begin is by cherishing and seeking to strengthen our dear MIT community. Imperfect, certainly. But a community with an essential commitment to facing hard facts, thoughtfully striving to correct our errors – and working together to address humanity’s greatest challenges. A community where we aspire always to treat one another with sympathy, humility, decency, respect and kindness.

Let us treasure and care for that community – and let us work to make it better.

In the days and months to come, I would like us to find meaningful ways to come together to work on these challenges, for ourselves and for our society. I have asked John Dozier, our Institute Community and Equity Officer, to guide us in this effort. You may reach him directly at jdozier@mit.edu.

For now: I take hope in turning my thoughts to the new graduates we share with the world this afternoon. Today is our beloved Commencement day, a day when we honor the achievements of our graduating students and charge them with helping to heal the world. That charge will be all the more meaningful now, grounded in the very present struggles for our nation and for the world.

With great love and concern for our community and our nation,
There are events in our days that define our lives as well as our national consequence. We are witnessing one of such moments of definition as individuals and as a nation.

Just starting to emerge from the disorienting experiences provoked by a debilitating pandemic, last week we learned about the tragedy of George Floyd, an African American man who died lying on a street in Minneapolis, while pleading for his life. This past Sunday in Bozeman, community leaders, including MSU students, thoughtfully organized a peaceful demonstration that brought together thousands in support of Black Americans and all people of color, while committing to take on the challenge of dismantling racism, seeking justice and promoting peace. I am proud to see our community members making their voices heard in peaceful, productive ways in an effort towards positive change.

At this historic hour, we stand with our students, faculty and staff of color and with every individual - irrespective of race, ethnicity and gender - who is feeling fear, anger and pain because of these events. You are not alone and we see you.

Our heart also goes out to people who are victimized and caught in the confusion created by others who want to take advantage of this situation to sow discord and destruction. We cannot condone violence in any of its senseless expressions.

We have a responsibility - and the opportunity - to work together to address the injustice and inequality that our founding as a public university sought to eradicate. As the land-grant institution of the state, your Montana State University is committed to maximizing access and success for everyone, to finding lasting solutions, and to build a better world and a more just society.

In these times more than ever, we see the value and urgency of the power of education, diversity and community. In the coming weeks, there will be opportunities for MSU students, faculty, staff and neighbors to participate in conversation and action, as part of our mission to engage with the communities we serve. As one of our institutional documents proudly proclaims, "We believe that excellence at Montana State University is best achieved through a culture of intellectual and personal growth that is diverse and inclusive."

Let us come together as one people to create an environment in which our differences are the source of our strength. 



For as long as I live, I will never forget the horrific video of Mr. George Floyd being woefully asphyxiated by the knee of a morally bankrupt officer of the law. For what seemed like an eternity, we witnessed Mr. Floyd's very breath being extinguished from him. His cries of "mama" and "I can't breathe" fell empty on the ears of the callous and cold-hearted officer. I have not been able to sleep restfully since witnessing this tragedy.

I know our community is hurting, yet again, at the sight of another unarmed young Black man die at the hands of those sworn to protect and serve. I know our blood is boiling and our emotions are high. Believe me, I truly understand! As the father of a young Black man, and as an uncle and a great uncle to scores of other young men, I have great empathy for the families who endure such atrocities of civil and human rights. No family should ever have to experience the loss of a loved one in such a brutal and overtly racist manner.

Even in light of what I've said, I say to all of us, let's stand up for the value of our lives, but if you feel compelled to protest this great injustice, please do so peacefully and with the best interest of your fellow man and woman. We must triple our efforts to rid our society of racism—which, seemingly, in the modern era, has resulted in a practice that Black male lives, in particular, are dispensable.

Go forward and voice your collective stand against injustice with vigor, passion and solidarity in the true Morgan tradition, but as you do, please do so peacefully.

United in equality and humanity,


Research and data clearly show that structural racism and the experience of day-to-day racism result in significant and compounding negative health impacts for people of color. We will highlight these data over the next few weeks and hope you will follow along.
Racism and associated health impacts.



The death of George Floyd has brought us to a point of inflection throughout our country, and it has done so for multiple reasons.

Mr. Floyd's death was captured on video, so we have been forced to see a truth we would rather not believe. That video is both heartbreaking and infuriating. No decent person could watch the extermination of a helpless human being in such a callous manner without experiencing feelings of true anger and despair.

We all have seen this story before, and far too frequently. We have watched as many, particularly men of color, have lost their lives to violence and hate. The circumstances may change, as may the individuals involved, but the result is devastatingly consistent.

Yes, we all have tried to say the right things after these incidents--we have expressed our disgust as well as our grief and sympathy.

Have we DONE the right things, though?

Have we challenged racism and ignorance, even when we see it expressed subtly in "polite company" by those we would consider to be colleagues or friends? Have we honestly questioned and explored our own biases and how they shape our behaviors? Have we worked hard enough to create diversity, and with it greater understanding of and appreciation for one another, throughout our networks and organizations? Have we been guilty of, despite our best intentions, moving on to the next crisis of the day and failing in our commitment to make positive change?

I have struggled to find the right words at this time, and to posit some answers for how we sustain the necessary systemic change. Maybe the questions I posed in the previous paragraph must be examined with unvarnished candor, thereby affecting our individual actions, our willingness to speak out and, as a result, affect those around us while strengthening our efforts to achieve systemic change.

I am extremely proud to be part of a richly diverse university community that is strengthened by its diversity. I believe NJIT serves as an example of what most communities should strive for, but that does not mean we can pretend what we have seen is not our problem. It is our problem, and we have a responsibility that we cannot shirk. Please join me in committing to not let this moment pass without becoming better as individuals and as a community. I welcome your thoughts and suggestions for how to accomplish those goals. My thoughts and prayers are with the family of George Floyd and all those who feel angry, sad, and powerless at this time. We must work hard to resolve the issue of racism thoughtfully, peacefully, and with accountability for those who disregard the value of life of our fellow Americans.

Once again, we find ourselves filled with sorrow, outrage, and grief over a loss of yet another Black person's life at the hands of law enforcement that was tragic, unjust, and avoidable. There have been numerous appalling events over the last few weeks during an already difficult time—a pandemic. While it is hard to find words to describe the shocking ghastliness of the videoed last minutes of George Floyd's life on a Minneapolis street, with a police officer's knee on his neck, the poignant and unheeded pleas of Mr. Floyd and the bystanders—as in previous occurrences—remain haunting. His cries tear at our hearts, just as the knowledge that events like this seem to happen again and again and again rips not only at our conscience but at what we all consider to be a just and humane society.

This is one of those moments when reason and knowledge and discourse, which university citizens prize so highly, often doesn't seem like enough of a response. How could they be, when these deaths keep recurring, and when racism continues to manifest itself, even in our own community?

But reason, discourse, study, evidence, analysis—those are our tools, and events like the killing of George Floyd should not cause us to set them aside, but instead to redouble our exertions to use them in the cause of addressing racism, xenophobia, violence, and hate to underscore social justice, human dignity, inclusion, and peace. Many of our scholars already study the issues so evident in the Floyd video—inequality, race, and the inequities of the criminal justice system. Over the summer, I will be examining—and I am sure this will be true for many of you, too—how else our University might contribute to the goal of creating more just practices and systems. In the meantime, on behalf of the NYU community, I offer our University's sympathies to the family and loved ones of George Floyd, with whom we grieve for his lost life and the unspeakable suffering to which he was subjected, as well all of those impacted by this and the other terrible recent events. To deal with these types of issues while simultaneously navigating a pandemic that is giving rise to differential impacts on communities of color, and in particular, those of African descent, is especially oppressive.

Finally, my heart goes out to those in our own community who have been feeling overwhelmed by grief or apprehension because of fear for their own safety, their families, and loved ones. I want to remind you that NYU stands with you, and we have resources to help: for students at the Wellness Exchange, and for employees through Carebridge. And please also note that the Office of Global Inclusion (OGI) continues to plan events for the community.



As I write this, cities across the country, including here in Greensboro and around North Carolina, are ablaze in unrest and souls in anguish over George Floyd’s death at the hands of Minneapolis police. It was a scene, unfortunately, like many we have seen before, in which the life of an African American man is extinguished in a confrontation that, at minimum, could have been deescalated; at best, avoided entirely. It leaves millions of us around our nation with a reasonable and just question: Why? In the absence of an acceptable answer – and to be clear, there is no acceptable answer – we are left with heavy hearts, sick with grief, inflamed with anger.   

I join the Aggie family in grieving the loss of George Floyd and in voicing a commitment that his death cannot be allowed to pass in vain. As the leader of the nation’s largest historically black university, an institution borne of the bigotry connected by a straight line of history to Floyd’s death, I appreciate the weight of this moment on the shoulders of our students, their families, our faculty and staff and our alumni. As we collectively bear witness to this injustice, we do so from the vantage point of our university, and the tools and knowledge we can bring to bear in this moment of pain and despair. What can our faculty and students do to bring understanding and context to this incident? What measures of change and solution can their scholarly work make clear? What light can they shed on intersecting dynamics of race, the criminal justice system, history, economics and the human psyche that will illuminate truth for a troubled nation? 

In the weeks and months ahead, I pray that the moral imperative of this moment will not fade, and that we will rise to the challenges that our leadership has prepared us to meet. If the aftermath of George Floyd’s death is, indeed, not to be mere protest but a predicate for change in which minds, hearts, policies and practices are forever altered, it will only do so if it is nourished by knowledge and truth. Let us commit ourselves collectively to surfacing those invaluable ingredients of change. 

For now, I encourage all of us to avail ourselves of the community and family ties that bind us at A&T. Lean on one another for comfort, and don’t be afraid to reach out if you are struggling. For our students, additional help is available through Counseling Services at 336-334-7727, Monday through Friday, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. For faculty and staff, the university’s Employee Assistance Program services provider, ComPsych Guidance Resources, is here for you at 866-511-3373, password: NCAT. This service is confidential and free of charge to you as an employee.
I write today as a leader of one of the nation's Historically Black Colleges and Universities. First, I would like to express my deep condolences to the family of Mr. George Floyd who was killed by Minneapolis, Minnesota, police officers on May 25, 2020. On behalf of North Carolina Central University, I join citizens from across our nation and around the world in expressing deep concern about this blatant tragedy and condemning its perpetrators. This incident highlighted how equality and justice are not fairly dispensed in our country. 

We are all incensed by the disturbing images of African Americans whose lives have been taken violently across the nation. As we grieve and try to make sense of these tragic deaths and incidents, we also seek reassurance that justice will be served swiftly and those who are responsible will be held accountable. 

As a community of students, faculty, and staff, we must together call for the restructuring of our judicial system to create one that dispenses justice equally, regardless of racial, ethnic or sexual orientation. As an institution that was founded by a visionary and fearless leader, this university represents the values that Dr. James E. Shepard exhibited with incredible fortitude and strength as he built a progressive learning institution for African Americans in Durham in the early 1900s. Intent on his mission despite the history of oppression that African Americans and other communities of color had faced, Dr. Shepard demonstrated that no obstacle is insurmountable.

The events surrounding us today represent another moment in history when silence and status-quo are no longer acceptable. I ask you to appeal to our local, state and federal leaders to address the ongoing pattern of racial injustice and disparities that exist within our society and embrace public policies that can truly achieve this country's ideals.

I am counting on each of you, as Eagles, to lead us in seeking a more perfect union. As Dr. King said in his historic "I Have a Dream"speech in 1963, we all seek to live in a nation where we will not be judged by the color of our skin, but by the content of our character.  NCCU continues to uphold and nurture an environment of diversity and inclusion that celebrates and respects all voices and opinions.

Students, faculty and staff: In this painful time, I urge you to take advantage of the resources made available in your university community. I encourage students to contact the Counseling Center if you need assistance dealing with this very difficult moment. Faculty and staff may access the Employee Assistance Program to learn about assistance options available. 

Together, let us keep on pursuing a peaceful quest for equality and justice in the days, weeks and months to come. I hope each of you remain secure in knowing the NCCU community is standing by your side. 
he inhumane and unjust circumstances surrounding the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis on Monday have left many in our community, myself included, feeling deep sorrow, frustration and understandable anger. Over the weekend we’ve witnessed this grief and anger displayed in many ways, including a peaceful protest in Raleigh, and unfortunately, separate acts of vandalism against many of our local businesses that have done so much to help build a culture of inclusion in our community.

As a higher education community dedicated to thought and action that improves the world around us, we condemn acts of racism, discrimination and violence.

In the course of the past few months, we have again witnessed more instances of violence against people of color – including Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery – that serve as a continual and painful reminder that unjust racial disparities continue in our country. How could we not be sorrowful, and angry, at this moment? It is past time for drastically needed and rightful change.

We must acknowledge that a person’s race is still too often used to determine how they will be treated in almost every aspect of American life. And as a leading U.S. institution of higher education, we are committed to our critical role in helping right the injustices of racism and discrimination. I believe higher education can and should be a positive influence on lives well beyond academic instruction, and that we need to help lead the way forward toward equality, equity and justice for all in our country.

As the state’s largest public university, we have the responsibility to educate ourselves and those who pass through our doors to overcome ignorance, unite against intolerance, model inclusivity, and advance the dignity and power of diversity.

The events of this week must serve as a catalyst for all in our community to be unequivocally dedicated to building an inclusive environment that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. I remain committed to that goal, and expect you will do all you can in your role at NC State – as a student, faculty or staff member, or friend of the university – to eliminate racism and all other forms of discrimination.

As members of this intellectual community, I strongly encourage all of us to fight for positive change powerfully, thoughtfully and peacefully. I also encourage each of us to embrace with humility that we all have more to learn as it relates to understanding our own places of prejudice and how we can strive to overcome how these impact our own actions.

As Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity Sheri Schwab wrote in her recent Statement Regarding the Events in Minneapolis (if you haven’t yet read it, please do), Provost Arden and I have charged a task force to ensure advancing diversity, inclusion and well-being is inherent and represented in every aspect of NC State’s next 10-year Strategic Plan. We’ll be finalizing the plan over the summer, and encourage our community to provide your feedback via the Strategic Plan Task Force website.

Over the summer, I’ll also be working with Vice Provost Schwab and other university leaders to ensure opportunities for vital community discussions and feedback opportunities related to diversity and inclusion on campus when we return in the fall, in whatever format those need to take in the new COVID-19 environment.

In the meantime, please keep up with important diversity-and-inclusion-related news, events, announcements and opportunities to get involved by subscribing to the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity’s (OIED) Diversity Digest. Also, review the Diversity web portal from the university’s homepage to find education and training resources, diversity and inclusion programs, details about NC State’s Campus Community Centers, an events calendar and more important information.

NC State’s greatest strength is its people – all its people – and their diversity of thought and experience. It is on each and all of us to fight injustice and advance a truly diverse, inclusive and supportive environment for all on our campus and well beyond. That’s what it means to be part of this Wolfpack.
As a result of the events of the past week, we are writing to express support for all of us who may be struggling to understand and react and in particular our students and colleagues of color who may be experiencing pain and anguish.

North Dakota State University has clearly stated values in denouncing discrimination, harassment and retaliation as integral to our success as a student-focused, land-grant, research university.

What that means in difficult times is we support one another any way we can. We listen, we work to understand, we actively work together toward a more inclusive and accepting community for all of us.

More formally, we remind our community of support available through the following sources:

• Confidential resources to support students are available through the NDSU Counseling Center.

• Educational and reporting resources related to equity and inclusion may be found here.

• Confidential resources to support faculty and staff are available through the Employee Assistance Program.

• The University Ombuds is a resource for faculty members, graduate students and academic staff.

We also encourage us all to continue efforts to increase our understanding by reading, asking questions, listening and welcoming one another. 
We have heard the chorus of raised voices demanding that we make real, at last, the promise of American democracy for the many millions of African-Americans who have given so much to build it. We feel, in the words of Dr. King, "The fierce urgency of now."

On Monday, June 8, we will suspend all classes and close all administrative and academic offices on all of our campuses. We will use this time and space—exactly two weeks after the unjust and inhumane killing of George Floyd—to hold a Day for Reflection, Engagement, and Action. We will join together in unity with those all around the world who are grieving and angry over persistent injustice toward African-American citizens.

We will begin with an online vigil at 11 a.m. to remember George Floyd and all African-Americans whose lives have been brutally taken from us. At 2 p.m., we will feature a conversation with Professor of Law Margaret Burnham, founder of Northeastern's Civil Rights and Restorative Justice Project, on ways we can move forward together.

In the days that follow, we will commence a series of virtual town halls on race and justice led by Deans Uta Poiger and James Hackney, co-chairs of the Presidential Council on Diversity and Inclusion.

On June 19, we will gather on all of our campuses for a Day of Solidarity. June 19, often known as "Juneteenth"or Freedom Day, is traditionally a day to celebrate the emancipation of slaves in the U.S. We will gather together to listen, to speak, and to engage one another in advancing the cause of justice.

These events are just the beginning of a series of specific actions that Northeastern will undertake.

It is important to note that we won't always get it right. We won't always find the right words. But we must work together to address the pain. We must find the solidarity that we as a society—and as fellow human beings—so desperately need right now.

There is no time to waste. Working together in mutual trust and understanding to achieve the change that we seek, let us begin.
I felt outrage and disgust watching video of the fatal mistreatment of George Floyd in Minneapolis. 

And I was further sickened this morning when our recent graduate, CNN's Omar Jimenez, was arrested live on television for, as Medill Dean Charles Whitaker described it, "the sin of doing journalism."

Our Northwestern community grieves for the many ways in which our society tolerates and facilitates injustices, demonstrated so vividly in these and other recent events. 

Dean Whitaker poignantly expressed his personal pain as a father of African-American sons. Many of the rest of us can barely begin to imagine the personal toll that racism takes on marginalized communities every single day. But we can all increase our resolve to create a Northwestern community, and a world, where all people are accorded the dignity and the safety they deserve. 

Our nation must do better, and I pledge that I, and our university, will work toward that end.
The recent killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and now George Floyd are heartbreaking tragedies that further show the injustice and systemic racism the Black community faces every day. It's been hard to find the right words for this message because I keep imagining the images and videos capturing these horrific acts and the Black community struggling to be heard when crying out for justice and peace. My heart goes out to the families, friends, and those directly or indirectly impacted.

Blatant acts of racism, hatred, and police brutality should not be normalized again.  Unfortunately, we have been here before.  Many of us remember the recent names… Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice, Eric Garner, Sandra Bland, Atatiana Jefferson, Botham Jean, Philando Castile, and now Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and George Floyd, all victims of a shameful legacy of hate.  We must continue to say the names of those lost to senseless acts of violence and racism.

"I can't breathe"were some of the last words from Mr. Floyd before his life was taken right before our eyes. They were also the last words of Eric Garner in 2014. It is suffocating to exist in a space where Black lives are considered disposable with little hope for real systematic change. I pose this question: "what are we going to do to advocate for equity for our communities and nation?"
 
As a Society within this society, we want to see justice.  We want it in the cases dominating the news but also for the 99.9% of cases most of us will never hear about.  We expect justice to be dispatched swiftly and equitably, according to the law, and not influenced by income, race, or connections.  However, we would also like to see that equality extended to our educational institutions – at every level and to companies and industries solving our countries' most complex problems.  We should not be marginalized; as descendants of those who helped build this nation, we seek full participation in all aspects of society with a fair chance to help make America a more perfect union. 

Of course, we recognize that radical change requires allies; Black people do not have the numbers or resources to bring about systemic change alone.  So, we call on those who believe everyone deserves a chance to fulfill their potential to provide opportunities, to open doorways and create pathways for those who did not have access to the resources that produce advantages.  Finally, we ask those who believe in the mission of the National Society of Black Engineers to invest in this cause so our members can thrive and continue to be agents of positive change.

Now is the time for the conversation.  Now is the time for understanding.  This is the perfect time in history for our country to embrace national ideals for all of its citizens.  We implore righteous people to honor and protect our inalienable rights to liberty, opportunity, and equality. 

We cannot remain silent at a time like this.  We must call for political action to invoke social change, to end police brutality, and dismantle systemic racism.  We are not powerless. Nelson Mandela put it best when he said, "education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world."We encourage all NSBE members and allies to take action and let your voices be heard... mentor, vote, make calls, write, participate, post, march… be the example.

NSBE is compiling a list of health, grief, and wellness support resources to assist our members in coping with all of these troubling events; that information will be provided in another official communication.  Moreover, we are developing a team of leaders to create ways for our organization to use its platform to speak out on social justice issues.  Above all, I ask you to hold on to hope, to seek refuge in faith, and the knowledge that we will get to the other side of this bleak moment.  Together, we will overcome this adversity, as we have in the past, and continue our march toward a more just society. 

Continue to encourage one another, support one another, listen to one another, and love one another. In closing, NSBE loves you, and your life matters!   


We typically share with you a weekend email update on various COVID-19 related issues. We will send the update on Monday this week. 

I ask instead that we use this weekend to reflect on the horrific events of the past week and specifically on what we as individuals, as a community, and as a nation must do to prevent crimes like this from happening again. What can we do to make things different? 

George Floyd suffered a horrendous and completely unnecessary death. His killing, and those that have come before, demand that we create a different future. This can and must be our task. 

This time, we must act. That starts with dialogue, which I have renewed with key community partners. We must reaffirm our commitment as Buckeyes to our university values of inclusion, diversity and tolerance.

Today, let us also act by reflecting on what’s in our hearts and directing our activities to collaborative efforts to produce lasting change. 
Like many of you, we are deeply saddened by the acts of brutality our country has witnessed in recent days. These images and stories are painful reminders of the persistence of racial tension in our country, and they reaffirm the urgent need to stand in solidarity with our community members of color, especially African American community members.

As Directors within OHIO’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion, we understand the limitations of a statement like this at a time when many in our community are hurting so deeply. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to pose extraordinary challenges, made even more challenging by the images of violence we see flashing across our screens.

At the same time, we know that some of you may derive great benefit from campus resources to support your psychological and emotional well-being. For this reason, we encourage all of you to seek out campus resources that can provide support and encouragement to Ohio University community members. Some of them are highlighted below:

Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS)

CPS provides mental health and adjustment services to students and also consultation to faculty, administrators and parents who support our students.

Psychiatry and individual counseling through face-to-face video conferencing or audio phone therapy are just some of the services available to students through CPS.

Staff members in CPS also make referrals to a wide range of support services both on and off campus. Students may contact CPS at any time by calling 740-593-1616. If calling after hours, press 1 to be connected to a counselor. You can also visit their website at www.ohio.edu/student-affairs/counseling.

IMPACT Student Support Meetings

OHIO students are encouraged to email diversity@ohio.edu to express interest in attending an IMPACT meeting, which is a support group convened for any Ohio University student who wishes to discuss special issues that may be impacting our community of students.

These meetings are facilitated by Dr. Kristyn Neckles, psychologist and embedded clinician for our Division of Diversity and Inclusion, on a by-request basis. 

Employee Assistance Program

Ohio University's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and Work/Life program is offered through Impact Behavioral Healthcare Services.

The EAP is available to all Ohio University employees and their family members.

Visit Impact Employee Assistance (opens in a new window)(opens in a new window)and enter 'ohiouniversity' as the username under the heading Member Login to access informational materials and resources.

Program features include confidential 24/7 live professional assistance (1-800-227-6007) and more.

OHIO’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion remains unwavering in our commitment to offering support and safety so all Bobcats in their diverse identities and experiences can find support for their concerns, worries, and fears.

All staff members in our offices — the LGBT Center, the Multicultural Center, the Office of Multicultural Student Access and Retention/OMSAR, and the Women’s Center — stand ready to offer whatever support we can to our OHIO community as we work together to create a world that is safe, equitable, and compassionate for all. We are here for you - please do not hesitate to reach out to us if we can be of assistance.

In times like these, community is the strongest antidote we have to combat isolation and loneliness. You are not alone!
We are disheartened by the racial injustices in our country & hope justice is swiftly served for the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery & victims of senseless violence. To our Black students/employees—we see you, we hear you, we support you. Your voices matter.
I know our Monarch community joins me in expressing our collective outrage regarding the horrific and senseless killing of George Floyd. We send prayers to his family as well as our hopes that his tragic death will create not just a nationwide conversation, but a commitment from every member of American society to say "No more" to what we observed in Minneapolis or, before that, in Georgia. As a diverse and inclusive campus, we must continue to do our collective best to demonstrate for the world that at Old Dominion University we strive to learn from differences, leading to a greater understanding of one another.

 The primary role of police in America is to provide for the safety of all people by protecting them from criminals and to hold each of us accountable to the law. We expect police to apprehend criminals and work within the legal system to make certain that justice is blind and all are held accountable to the law.

We all have watched in horror videos being replayed over the past week showing the life of George Floyd brutally taken from him by a white police officer in Minneapolis, Minn., while three other officers sworn to uphold the law looked on in indifference. The officer who killed Mr. Floyd was arrested and all four of the officers were fired, but the other three officers simply went home.

Sadly, this horrific event is just the latest in a seemingly endless stream of acts of violence against Black and other people of color by police who are sworn to protect and serve them.

Mr. Floyd’s death comes on the heels of the Feb. 23 fatal shooting of Ahmaud Arbery by armed white residents as he was out jogging in a neighborhood in South Georgia. As well, the March 13 death of Breonna Taylor, who was shot in her Louisville, Ky. home by police. And the reporting to police last week of an African American man threatening a white woman when in fact he was in New York City’s Central Park to watch birds and simply asked her to keep her dog on a leash.

We continually hear speeches and testimonials about how unacceptable and terrible these acts are and how our leaders feel the pain of the Black community. Yet, nothing changes much and we act as if these horrific events are singular or isolated events. But these are not one-offs. They are the product of a failed justice system that perpetuates racism in America and too often a culture of silence within police forces that protects incompetent and hateful people simply because they wear the badge. We are condemned to relive these tragedies unless we make real change a priority throughout this country.

America must be a land of personal and equal freedom, safety and opportunity for all people. And to be certain, the police exist to protect us from predators and not to control us. That attitude should be universal in this country regardless of who we are, where we live or what we look like.

But how can we expect America and all people who live here — including communities of color — to thrive in the midst of such violence and injustice? How many times must we write the same messages expressing our outrage and hurt, sharing our thoughts and prayers for those harmed, and pleading for an end to injustice? How many acts of discrimination, injury and death must occur before our country confronts the realities of the lived experiences of people of color in our society? All of this must stop and that requires action not speeches.

Policing is a local function, but our system of policing requires systematic change across the country. On Monday, I will write the National Governors Association and urge the association and other groups to develop rules, training programs and disciplinary codes for appropriate policing to be enforced throughout America and for unions to step up and support the justice system in weeding out bad officers. Most police are good, dedicated, under-paid and hard working men and women, who risk their lives every day for the well-being of all people. They deserve our thanks and respect and they should not be subject to public scorn because we are incapable of holding some police accountable to the laws of our country and communities simply because they wear a badge.  

As a university community, we must join together to ensure that all members of the OSU community — students, faculty, staff and visitors — not only feel welcomed and safe, but experience our community as a place to thrive. Each and every member of our community must know they are valued, that they belong here, and that we celebrate the rich diversity that they bring to Oregon State University. We should not tolerate anything less. 

Our new police chief, Edgar Rodriguez understands that police must be a community partner that provide a sense of safety in the university and broader community.  As we hire officers for our police force, the Office of Institutional Diversity will continue to provide training to OSU public safety officers on implicit bias, foundations of power, privilege and oppression to ensure that our public safety practices are congruent with OSU’s values regarding inclusivity and opposing oppression. University leaders also will to seek to achieve agreements with police agencies in communities where OSU operates so that we may mutually advance inclusive justice for all people. 

The novel coronavirus pandemic has made all of us look at the inequities in our society. We call people essential workers and yet we systematically pay them less than living wages and deny them critical health care and quality education for themselves and their children, and we act surprised that they are disproportionately vulnerable to death from the COVID-19 pandemic because of pre-existing conditions and that they are disproportionately people of color. When do we get disgusted enough with what we have created and say enough? 

We have a policing problem in America, but it is part of a much deeper and broader failure of this society to live up to the promise of America, which continually eludes us.

As I prepare to step down as university president on June 30, I am confident that our university and the OSU community are in the right hands with incoming president King Alexander. He and I talk often and I know he shares my personal values and leadership commitment to inclusivity, safety and opportunity for all. I know that as OSU’s next president, he will be unwavering in helping advance the work of inclusive justice and opportunity for all that must be part of life within OSU — and across America.  Together with Chief Rodriguez, he will help us move in the right direction in our little part of the world.

In closing, I ask that each of us continue to participate in dialogue, leadership and understanding as we seek to alter the direction of society. I know this will not happen overnight, but by God it needs to happen soon. 
 It has been ten days since the world saw the video of George Floyd dying while a white police officer pressed his knee into Floyd's neck. It has been a week since protests began around the country and across New York, convulsing the city. Yesterday, hundreds if not thousands of New Yorkers gathered in Brooklyn, and then marched across the Brooklyn Bridge past One Pace Plaza, in a moving commemoration of Floyd's life. We join in mourning his loss.
 
During this time, we have been listening to the Pace Community and hearing the pain, anguish, and anger. We are reflecting on our commitments, talking with our Student Government Associations and Black Student Unions, and determining how we can move the University forward while doing more to fight for equality and justice. We know we haven't always gotten it right, and we want to do better.
 
We recognize that Floyd's death is not an isolated case. It has been three and a half months since Ahmaud Arbery was shot and killed while out for a jog; nearly three months since Breonna Taylor was shot and killed by police who'd broken into her apartment; ten days since Tony McDade was shot and killed by police investigating a stabbing. It will soon be 10 years since Danroy "DJ"Henry, a Pace student and football star, was shot and killed by a police officer in Pleasantville. We mourn those losses, too. We know there is much to be done. We are remembering and relearning the words of Angela Davis: "It is not enough to be non-racist, we must be anti-racist."
 
At Pace University, we are committed to being unbiased and anti-racist across our institution.
 
We are committed to hearing from all voices and empowering all parts of our community.
 
We are committed to standing up for what is right.
 
In the last academic year, we hired Pace's first chief diversity officer and established the new Division of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. That Division worked to update our hiring practices to mitigate bias and increase diversity, and it centralized key offices to streamline and focus their important work. There is much, much more to be done.
 
Today, we are committing to the following actions:
 

    We will establish a Presidential Task Force, composed of students, staff, faculty, and alumni and funded by the President's Office, to examine the Pace experience for all in our Community, including those who are Black, those who are brown, and those from other historically underrepresented groups. Under the guidance of the chief diversity officer, in partnership with other campus leaders, and guided by the findings of the forthcoming Diversity Climate Survey, the Presidential Task Force will design a plan with short- and long-term strategies for a more equitable and just Pace University. It will welcome input from all parts of the Pace Community. The Presidential Task Force will be formulated in the coming weeks and will issue its recommendations by the end of fall semester.

 

    We recognize that voices need to be heard and action needs to happen everywhere across the University, and we ask departments and divisions to review their areas to develop long-term commitments for systemic change. These recommendations will be developed by October 1, 2020, and forwarded to the Presidential Task Force for inclusion in the University's comprehensive plan.

 

    We will soon launch a reporting site on which members of the Pace Community can register incidents or experiences contradictory to the inclusive environment we seek to sustain. This site will launch during fall semester. Whether reported on this site or elsewhere, University leaders will always investigate and respond to incidents that are brought to our attention.

 

    In the next week, we will organize a community forum, modeled on this week's session for faculty and staff, in which all members of the Pace Community will be invited to share their experiences and their visions for how Pace can make a difference.

 

    We will design a comprehensive series of programming for the fall semester to examine racial justice in our community and our country, including honoring the memory of DJ Henry as we mark 10 years since his murder.

 
We welcome all in the Pace Community who wish to serve on the Presidential Task Force. Its agenda will not be set by the administration; it will be set by the community. The Presidential Task Force will convene in the coming weeks. If you're interested in serving on it, please contact diversity@pace.edu .
 
We had planned a Diversity Climate Survey for last semester, to capture critical voices and experiences to inform the work of the DEI Division. It will be launched when we return to campus. 
 
Fall programming already in development includes the Our Pledge Against Oppression discussion series, featuring panels on working toward anti-racism and examining race and the prison-industrial complex and a symposium on the absence of Black and Latina/o/x intellectual communities in academia; a teach-in series rooted in critical race theory; a social justice reading club; and the annual MLK lecture.
 
We have also compiled a list of resources to answer the question, "What can I do?"It is available at www.pace.edu/takeaction .
 
We know that this is just a start. But we are committing to do the work, and we will use these first steps as a basis for our future plans. We will have more information for you soon on next week's Zoom meeting, and more detail forthcoming on the Presidential Task Force and fall programming.
 
We have always believed that Pace's strength lies in its community. Despite the many and enormous challenges currently facing us, we still believe that. Let's stand up for each other, listen to each other, and work together to build an even better Pace. 



The tragic circumstances surrounding the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis, following other recent unspeakable tragedies, makes clear yet again that systemic discrimination and unjust racial disparities continue to plague our country. It is past time for change.

We cannot remain silent in the face of this heart-breaking reality. As an institution of higher education, we have an obligation to fight ignorance and intolerance, model inclusivity and embrace the power that diversity represents. 

In the face of hatred and bias, we must speak out. We must not accept apathy, indifference or silence, otherwise we allow hatred, prejudice and intolerance to grow. 

Our message today is, foremost, one of profound compassion for all who live in fear that the color of their skin, gender identity, ethnicity or religion makes them a target of hate. Our hearts ache as we can only imagine the trauma, pain and frustration that many are feeling at this time. 

This message also reaffirms Penn State’s commitment to disrupting hate, bias and racism whenever and wherever we encounter it, and to creating the most inclusive and diverse community that we possibly can – one that is free of discrimination; one that embraces differences; and one that respects all individuals. 

We support our community as you express your sadness and anger through peaceful protest, and we know it is even more challenging to support and lift each other up during this global pandemic, with the added difficulty of social distancing. However, please know that our entire University community grieves with you, supports you and joins with you as we strive for positive change. 

Our country has witnessed with horror the untimely deaths of George Floyd and Ahmaud Arbery, black men whose deaths have come even as we struggle to absorb the disproportionate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on minoritized communities. All around us, people of color are dying at a higher rate, making further visible the structural inequities that pervade every area of the American experience. 

As Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz said, "These are things that have been brewing in this country for 400 years."

It is easy to feel overwhelmed by these events and give in to despair. But we must not give up because we know that inaction supports injustice, inequity and racism. 

We must deepen our work to make our community one where justice and equity are central to who we are. We must work towards equity and justice at Portland State, in Portland, in Oregon, in America, and across the world. It will take intentional and collective action to dismantle systemic structures of oppression. 

We stand with communities in Minnesota and Georgia calling for justice, and we affirm our commitment to doing our own work to ensure that justice and equity are a core part of all of PSU.

Today, and always, black lives matter. 






Leebron: We must act to reduce deadly discrimination and racism
SPECIAL TO RICE NEWS – JUNE 1, 2020
POSTED IN: CURRENT NEWS, FEATURED STORIES


Share23
Rice President David Leebron sent the following message to the university community May 30:

President David Leebron
President David Leebron

We draw many things from being a community. We do things collaboratively. We define and share our values. We take collective joy in our successes. We commiserate when there are reasons for sadness. And we come together in times of crisis and danger.

Over the summer, when our students and also to some extent our faculty are dispersed, the immediate sense of community and our ability to rely on it is diminished. This year that is even more so since our education has been completely online since March. And although our students may still be seeing each other in classes on screens, many of the casual interactions that build our connections to each other no longer take place.

There is of course great sadness sweeping across our world and our country because of the pandemic. Many have lost friends and family members. Many more are living in isolation and under constant threat of danger to their health. Tens of millions have lost their jobs, and collectively our country is facing a level of unemployment and financial distress we have not seen in 90 years. And these burdens have fallen unequally on different communities.

And yet, amid all of that, there is now a deep pang of pain sweeping across America that cries out for recognition, that demands that our voices be heard.

Just three weeks ago I wrote on Twitter about the horrific shooting of Ahmaud Arbery, who was killed while jogging in the coastal city of Brunswick, Georgia, in late February. In mid-March, Breonna Taylor, a young emergency medical technician in Louisville, Kentucky, was killed in her apartment when police entered. And last week, George Floyd was killed in Minneapolis when an arresting officer knelt on his throat for over eight minutes.

pull quote

What these recent cases, and others, have in common is that they all involved victims who were black Americans. Black Americans who were treated as a threat when they weren’t. Black Americans who were treated as if they did not belong in a place when they did. Black Americans who were treated as if they were not a vital part of the fabric of this nation when they have fought and died and sacrificed for it as much as any others. Black Americans who were killed when the circumstances provided no justification.

There is anger and pain and fear across America, not because these are new things to deal with, but because they aren’t. Last fall, for example, Atatiana Jefferson, a young Xavier University graduate working in the pharmaceutical industry, was killed by a police officer who entered her home in Fort Worth, Texas, without identifying himself. The names of these victims are seared in our memories.

For the most part, I write to the campus about events only when they directly involve Rice, and usually when our campus is in session. But occasionally, external events, nearby or far away, are such that they reach deeply into our community and especially affect a valued part of the Rice community. And so although we are currently dispersed and these incidents did not directly involve members of the Rice community, we must acknowledge that these events cause pain and fear to a vital part of our community. It is a pain and fear that many of us have trouble even imagining. Even in the middle of a global pandemic, it is a deep and enduring pain and fear that deserves acknowledgment and caring, and recognition that we must do better.

We must therefore join with our own expressions of concern and sympathy and outrage. We must work to build an inclusive environment, one that respects and values people from different backgrounds. We must take part in efforts to reduce the deadly discrimination and racism that is an unstaunched wound in our national fabric.

And so I write today to convey on behalf of the Rice community, to all of our community, and most especially to the black members of our community, that we acknowledge the sorrow and the fear and the pain. And that we know as a university and as individuals we must contribute to healing that wound.











As an organization committed to being a voice for the under-represented, SHPE denounces all racism. We wholeheartedly support equality and enthusiastically stand with everyone who is committed to diversity, respect, and justice
Even as this flashpoint in the struggle for racial justice unfolds primarily in the US, ours is a global community. Some struggles are more visible in certain geographies over others, owing to histories of oppression, but we fully recognize that members of our community worldwide are faced with a long list of systemic injustices. The task that lies before us is one of weaving equity, inclusion, and solidarity into each of our scholarly and professional activities, so that "diversity and inclusion" are not add-ons, but deeply integrated into our every practice, whether it involves conference processes, volunteering responsibilities, or global community support mechanisms.
Within SIGCHI, we care deeply about addressing discrimination of all kinds. We are committed to bringing down barriers to equal participation — in our community and the many worlds in which we work, but we must do better. It is not enough to not be racist; we must be anti-racist. With this in mind the SIGCHI Executive Committee (EC) is committing to taking the following steps to confront racism and other forms of discrimination and structural inequity.
    Listen and Reflect: We will identify avenues for our community members to share their experiences, observations, and suggestions around representation and existing practices, so that we can all listen actively, reflect, and learn. We will work together with those whose ability to participate is impacted, to identify ways of amplifying these voices. We will organize dialogues with our members so we all may strengthen our approaches to identifying and addressing prevalent forms of discrimination, racial and otherwise.
    Act Locally: Relying on lessons learned through active listening, we will communicate practices for our community to engage and adopt in personal and professional arenas, including in SIGCHI conferences, events, and publications.
        Represent: We will conduct a systematic review of formal SIGCHI policies and regular practices to examine how best we can respond to bias and bring down barriers that obstruct equal participation for any number of reasons. Specifically, we will take a deeper look at our conferences, volunteering, and community support offerings, to assess how our community may be better represented.
Based on our active listening, the SIGCHI EC will identify recommendations by the end of September, report these to the SIGCHI community in writing, and discuss them in a (virtual) town hall before the end of 2020. We will then begin the work towards integrating these short- and long-term recommendations into SIGCHI policies and practices. Throughout this process, we will be transparent and accountable across the SIGCHI community as we work to achieve our long-term commitments.
We are grateful for the initiative that many in our community have taken in these difficult times, to raise voices against deep injustice and extend support to others affected. Still, we urge our membership — those who are able — to reflect individually and together on the ways in which systemic racism and other systems of domination manifest to threaten the principles of equity and inclusion we espouse as a community. Whether it is in our research activities, our industry jobs, or our classrooms, how might we take on the responsibility of initiating the hard conversations? And of creating the safe spaces in which these conversations may have impact? Our search for justice inevitably ties us together as humans; now is the moment for each one of us to ask — how can we move forward together, in solidarity, to effect deep, systemic change?


SFU Stands in Solidarity Against Racism: Statement from the President
June 02, 2020
Recent incidents of anti-Black violence and discrimination in Canada and the United States provide a disturbing reminder of the prevalence of racism within our societies, and have caused much pain, anger and distress for Black students, faculty and staff.

Despite our commitments to human rights, universities like SFU are not immune to anti-Black and anti-Asian racism, nor to discrimination directed against Indigenous peoples.

Only a few weeks ago, I condemned the anti-Asian racism seen in our communities and spoke of our shared obligation to oppose racial discrimination in all its forms.

The events of recent days add further urgency to this cause. Racism has no place in our society, and we have a responsibility not only to condemn discriminatory behaviour, but also to take action to support inclusion for all.

At SFU, this starts with acknowledging the role we play in perpetuating systemic discrimination, and accepting that we have work to do to ensure that our ideals for a just society are reflected in our own practices, policies and procedures.

To this end, last year we appointed an executive team led by Dr. Joy Johnson to develop an action plan to advance equity, diversity and inclusion across the university. Supported by a pan-university advisory council, the group’s mandate is to eliminate systemic barriers and inequities in access, admissions, recruitment, career development, pay, working and learning conditions, resources, retention and progression.
While that work, including data gathering, is underway, we have much more to learn and much more to do. SFU leadership is committed to growth and change, and I am grateful to many for the part they are playing in building a university community where all feel included.

For students, faculty and staff who experience grief, trauma and/or stress resulting from racism and violence, support is available:

Equity, Diversity and Inclusion help and support: https://www.sfu.ca/edi/support.html
Students: Health & Counselling Services 778-782-4615 and our free, 24/7 mental health support program, mySSP. More information on these and other mental health supports here.
Faculty and all staff: Employee and Family Assistance Program:  Homewood Health 1-800-663-1142
Interfaith Centre: 778-782-3180
 
I have been heartened, as I have said many times in recent weeks, by the energy and commitment that SFU students, faculty and staff have shown to keep our community safe from the threat of COVID-19. Let us now apply that same energy and commitment to ensuring that our community is safe from the threat of racism and discrimination.

It’s all of our responsibility to combat racism, but none more so than those of us who have benefited from white privilege.







The events of the last several weeks have left us with a profound sense of grief, anger, and weariness, but also resolve. We grieve with the family and friends of George Floyd, who was killed by the police in Minneapolis. We grieve with countless other families, including those of Ahmaud Arbery, João Pedro Mattos Pinto, and Breonna Taylor, whose loved ones died senseless and inexplicable deaths at the hands of police officers around the globe.
We are angry at the police officers, their supervisors, and public leaders who allow these actions to continue.
We have grown weary from these reports, coming on the heels of the COVID scourge which has affected us all but especially the very same groups that have been targeted by police officers.
But we are resolved. To prevent the senseless deaths of African Americans at the hands of police and the systematic racism and oppression of people of color, we must transform our anger and grief and resolve to act. We must act at every level.
As leaders of a scientific organization that cares deeply about children, we lean into the research that consistently documents the long-lasting negative effects that discrimination, oppression, racism, and implicit bias have on children. We must discover ways to support families and communities in raising children to become peaceful and tolerant citizens.
We must hold our leaders accountable. Today, leaders at the highest levels are sowing division and racism instead of bringing healing and unity.
We must raise up the voices of unity, accountability, and healing that our nation needs. We need to elevate the voices of youth. Through evidence-based programs, we need to equip them for civic engagement and leadership that will bring about the changes that society needs. We need to stand behind and support youth in creating a better future.
Importantly, we must hold ourselves accountable. As members of the Society for Research in Child Development, we must ask ourselves what we can do in our teaching, our research, and our academic work to bring about the needed changes in our society.
At times like this, we must examine our own beliefs, values, and goals. At SRCD, integrating racial, cultural, and economic diversity into the spheres of developmental science is a central strategic goal. We will continue to promote research that illuminates the lived experiences of children of color, especially in these times of increased oppression and racism. SRCD can be counted on to act based on evidence.
Finally, SRCD builds capacity, as a strategic goal. We will raise up the next generation of researchers, inform policymakers, and equip practitioners in ways that lead to healing the broken-hearted, building bridges across the partisan divides, and advancing developmental science to improve human lives -- #WokeScientist.
We cannot do this alone. We must do this in community and in collaboration. SRCD Commons has been created to grow our sense of community. There are portals for members to communicate with each other for support and information. SRCD is hosting chats, webinars, and virtual meetings with parents of children to offer counsel and support.
Let us commit. Never again.



At the heart of the STARS Computing Corps is a commitment to equity and inclusion in computing. We condemn racism. We will continue to incorporate anti-racist frameworks to guide our work for institutional change. We stand with #BlackLivesMatter






The amount of pain and suffering we are witnessing and feeling is only a snapshot of a broader social reality. We, and everyone before us, have had a role in arriving at where we are today. As such, it is of paramount importance to step up and take a stance. It is our responsibility and a moral imperative to not stand by and simply witness the events around us. We must collectively find our voice and reject racism and inequality. Silence perpetuates, doubt reinforces, and rationalization of incident after incident only compounds the pain so many in our society continue to endure.

While CRA has a long history of celebrating, promoting, and advocating for inclusivity, we cannot be satisfied with continuing the status quo. We will continue to actively stand against discrimination and hatred. We will find new ways to use our voice in Washington to advocate for policies that address the inequities that exist in our field. We will amplify the efforts of our membership organizations wherever we can to help them improve the spaces they occupy and create an environment that is more welcoming, just, and equitable to all. Only together can we begin to right the long history of wrongs that have led us to this place and time.

We start with acknowledging the issues by talking to those around us and explicitly stating that we stand with them when they stand against discrimination and hatred.

We know that racism:

    Is systemic and institutionalized, was intentionally designed, and established well before the foundation of our nation.
    Continues to oppress people of color around the world – denying basic human rights, denying opportunity, and even more tragically denying many of their very lives.
    Is learned behavior that may be unlearned through education, compassion, empathy, and action.
    Drives a wedge between communities, and in doing so limits the enviable quest for a society steeped in respect.
    The privileged benefit from its existence and must be willing to sacrifice to overcome it.
    Lives in our homes, schools, workplaces, parks, churches, stores, amusement parks, government, law enforcement – it lives in us all to varying degrees.

To stand against it, we:

    Acknowledge the existence of racism within our communities and commit to defeating it.
    Call out and reject rationalization of incidents and distortion of information.
    Educate ourselves and those around us to be better equipped to address racism in its many forms.
    Stand up against the status quo by using our voice and agency.
    Commit to systemic change in laws, policies, procedures, etc.
    Dedicate all necessary resources to create lasting change
The Society of Women Engineers is angered and saddened by the recent events in Minneapolis that led to the death of George Floyd.  As an organization we vehemently denounce racism!  Systemic racism faced by those of color in our communities across the United States has become all too familiar.  We must stand together to demand justice and work together to turn our pain into purpose.  Nothing will change if those outside the impacted communities stand by and do nothing.  We must be true allies, standing shoulder to shoulder, asking the tough questions of our civic leaders.

To support the increased participation of women and minorities in engineering, SWE became a founding member of the 50K Coalition.  Since 2015, together with the American Indian Science and Engineering Society  (AISES), the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), we have been working together, using the collective impact model, to increase the numbers of engineering graduates from underrepresented populations to 50,000 by 2025.  Moreover, we have Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with the above-mentioned groups supporting initiatives like joint membership, research and public policy.  This year we are working on additional agreements with NOGLSTP, oSTEM and SASE.

We also recognize that as an organization we have our own work to do. The lack of visible diversity in our leadership is palpable.  For the past several years, SWE leadership has focused on creating a more welcoming and inclusive environment within the Society.  While our efforts may not always achieve the goals we have set forth, we cannot hope to accomplish those goals if we do not actively focus on them.  And we acknowledge that as an organization we still have a lot of work to do. 

As an organization we are committed to our diversity and inclusion principles:

    Developing women in engineering across socio economic strata and occupational focus
    Encouraging interest in and active participation of women and girls of underrepresented groups including (but not limited to) African-American, Asian, Hispanic, Pacific Islanders and Native Americans
    Supporting women and respecting their differences in family status, sexual orientation, sexual identity, age and physical ability
    Work collaboratively with men to confront gender bias and create a more inclusive engineering community

This year our SWE Senate has convened a sub-team to address the lack of diversity within our leadership pipeline.  And that work will continue in the next fiscal year.  We want to be solutions-driven.  Our KPI metric dashboard tracks the diversity demographics of both our membership and our leadership. Details will be shared on swe.org and in the State of SWE conducted every spring. We are holding ourselves accountable and we expect our members and partners to hold us accountable as well.

SWE is a place for women of all backgrounds to come together and share unique perspectives and advance both themselves and the field of engineering.

To our diverse members and every woman of color in STEM fields, your voice is important. We want to reiterate that we are an inclusive organization and we need you in order to increase representation in all levels of our profession and SWE leadership. 

Message to Our Community
Saturday, May 30, 2020, By News StaffShare
To the Syracuse University Community,

We write to you in the midst of tremendous pain, sorrow, anger and concern. From scenes in Minnesota, Georgia, New York and beyond, we have witnessed horrific images reminding us that the sting of racism and systemic injustice is real.

Each act of discrimination and violence carries with it a significant and sustained impact, especially among those targeted. George Floyd is a visceral and painful reminder of the unique ways many of us—students, faculty, staff and alumni—have experienced discrimination and violence. We are clearly in the midst of troubled times, and while civic and law enforcement authorities bear a particular responsibility, we of Syracuse University are now presented with a collective and crucial opportunity.

We recognize the hate and terror that continues to infect each and every corner of our country and world. To face such truth requires compassion. We also witness the tremendous goodness found within our diverse campus community, and we fully believe in our capacity to create and sustain our common good.

The challenges before us might seem impossible to overcome, and we are all far from perfect. Our response must meet the importance of this moment, to build communities where hate and intolerance are not just condemned and rejected, but eliminated. We are now called upon to embody our values and embrace each other. We must choose—through our words, thoughts and deeds—to emerge as a stronger and more just community.

We grieve for the families who have lost loved ones and for those who are suffering. It is simply not enough to try to imagine what others are going through. We must have the respect and resolve to do something about it. When we engage one another with kindness and compassion, we are working to ensure the dignity and worth of all.

While distanced around the world, we in the Orange Community can bind together and act together, for the sake of our world.

With hope,

Kent Syverud, Chancellor and President
Keith A. Alford, Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer
The Rev. Brian Konkol, Dean of Hendricks Chapel

To the Temple community: 

Recently, we have watched the horrific accounts of the deaths of George Floyd in Minnesota, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. Temple joins those who oppose racial oppression and are actively working toward racial equity. Our university was built on the idea that the world is filled with diamonds and these diamonds can be found anywhere and everywhere regardless of race, ethnicity or socio-economic background. As an educational institution, Temple promotes critical thinking and peaceful and purposeful activism. We join with leaders in the Philadelphia region in condemning violence that harms others and destroys property.

Last week, students, faculty and staff were invited to take part in programming and support services designed to help the Temple community process and constructively respond to this difficult season in our shared history. This programming will continue, led by Temple's Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership (IDEAL). We invite you to join with IDEAL for an "Envisioning Racial Justice" webinar to be held Tuesday, June 2. IDEAL regularly shares recommendations of books, articles and other valuable resources, like How To Be An Antiracist by Ibram X. Kendi. Not only is Dr. Kendi a National Book Award-winning and No. 1 New York Times Bestselling Author, he is a Temple Owl, having received his doctorate in African American Studies in 2010. Follow @templediversity for the most up-to-date recommendations and information about additional events.

If you believe you have been the victim of racial discrimination or harassment, please contact the university's EOC office, the focal point of Temple's institutionwide efforts for equal opportunity, equal access and affirmative action. Tuttleman Counseling Services and the Employee Assistance Program also remain available to support you as we face these challenges.

We have every confidence we will navigate this difficult time together.

Richard M. Englert
President

JoAnne A. Epps
Executive Vice President and Provost
Dear TSU Family, Tennessee State University shares the pain of those mourning the loss of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We also share that same anguish, sadness and outrage for the other black men and women across the country who are victims of police brutality because of the color of their skin. Our hearts ache for them and their loved ones, and also for the city that we call home. Nashville has had to endure the seemingly unimaginable this year. The decimation of deadly tornadoes; the physical, mental and economic impact of a pandemic; and now a peaceful rise against injustice that turned violent. While TSU does not condone the violence that erupted during the recent protests in Nashville and nationally, the university sternly and unequivocally opposes injustice and racism. Our institution has a rich history in the civil rights movement, as well as the modern-day movement. Many of our former students helped integrate Nashville's lunch counters, a historic moment in the city's history. Today, our students, from around the country and here in Nashville, are leaders in their communities fighting for change. We must seize this opportunity to continue the dialogue to demand fair and equitable treatment for all Americans, for all Nashvillians. Dear TSU Family, Tennessee State University shares the pain of those mourning the loss of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We also share that same anguish, sadness and outrage for the other black men and women across the country who are victims of police brutality because of the color of their skin. Our hearts ache for them and their loved ones, and also for the city that we call home. Nashville has had to endure the seemingly unimaginable this year. The decimation of deadly tornadoes; the physical, mental and economic impact of a pandemic; and now a peaceful rise against injustice that turned violent. While TSU does not condone the violence that erupted during the recent protests in Nashville and nationally, the university sternly and unequivocally opposes injustice and racism. Our institution has a rich history in the civil rights movement, as well as the modern-day movement. Many of our former students helped integrate Nashville's lunch counters, a historic moment in the city's history. Today, our students, from around the country and here in Nashville, are leaders in their communities fighting for change. We must seize this opportunity to continue the dialogue to demand fair and equitable treatment for all Americans, for all Nashvillians.
A Statement from President Oldham

Published Tuesday Jun 2, 2020
MEDIA RESOURCES
Our nation continues to be marred by injustice, racism, and violence. We observe recent events, that we have seen all too often, that threaten our ability to live with respect for each other.  The unwarranted death of George Floyd should never be forgotten.  I am saddened and struck with the overwhelming belief that we, as a nation, are better than this.

As a university community, we must take a stand and remain committed to our core values of inclusion, respect, kindness, and tolerance toward all.  Our students will be forever shaped by our words, actions, and response to the inexcusable treatment of people of color we have witnessed. 

At Tennessee Tech, we will be a safe place for African American students, faculty and staff. I ask you to hear their voices and pray that all of us will be granted an extra measure of God’s wisdom, grace, tolerance, and patience as we listen to each other and stand beside one another.

RETURN TO NEWS ROOM
The Texas A&M System condemns all racist behaviors, actions, and comments that tear at the moral fabric of our nation. The System is appalled at the deplorable and egregious acts of brutality by some police officers against African Americans. As the nation grieves, the A&M System is also experiencing sorrow and has devoted its platform to stand up against unjust racial disparities.

Based on diversity as a core value of our system, we denounce all forms of violence perpetrated against African Americans. The death of George Floyd, and many others, at the hand of police officers is a despicable and unacceptable outcome. Suffice it to say: IT MUST STOP. All forms of racism, from bias and micro-aggressions to racialized violence, create an undue weight on our faculty, staff, students of color, and administration. As such, there is a direct need to continue to educate and act on our values of inclusion and equity.

The Texas A&M System shall take all necessary steps to ensure that its employees and students are committed to the tenets of human respect and decency. To make a positive impact, we will make a unified commitment to translate our ideals into action for sustainable and proactive change. Equally as important, The Texas A&M System shall remain committed to providing an inclusive environment where all its members can thrive safely.

The A&M System believes all universities under the auspices of the Texas A&M Banner shall speak out against systemic and institutional racism at all levels. Likewise, we urgently call on all Texans and the nation to resist hateful and racist actions and refuse to drink from the bitter cup of divisiveness.

Dr. LaVelle Hendricks, Chair, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Angela Allen, West Texas A&M University
Dr. Carol Bunch Davis, Texas A&M University-Galveston
Larry Davis, Texas A&M University-Central Texas
Dr. Toney Favors, Texas A&M University-Texarkana
Dr. Manuel Flores, Texas A&M University-Kingsville
Elma De Luna-Gonzalez, Prairie View A&M University
Tim Gritten, Texas A&M University-San Antonio
Dr. Peter Haruna, Texas A&M International University
Dr. Lince Tiburcio, Tarleton University
Dr. Sherdeana Owens, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Dr. Christine Stanley, Texas A&M University
Dr. Julia Ballenger, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Joyce Miller, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Minita Ramirez, Texas A&M International University
Carl Greig, Texas A&M University-Texarkana
Dr. Corinne Valadez, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Dr. Jennifer Schroeder, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Brenda Moore, Texas A&M University-Commerce


Dear Texas Tech University family,
We have all been affected and saddened by the tragic and violent events in Minneapolis,
Minnesota. The events have brought to mind difficult and complex questions about racism
and justice. For some of our fellow students, faculty, and employees, what happened to
George Floyd feels like it could happen to them too.
That requires all of us to have an extra measure of compassion and understanding as we
move forward. Take time to listen to one another, to have the hard conversations and
uncomfortable exchanges. It is precisely those dialogues that strengthen the sense of
community that is an essential part of our university.
I want to reaffirm Texas Tech's unwavering commitment to a welcoming environment for all.
Many ethnicities are proudly represented on this campus, and our students are drawn from all
50 states and more than one hundred countries. That is a great strength, but it also means that
all of us—the administration, faculty, employees, and students alike—must treat every
person in this community with the respect and compassion they deserve. That is our bedrock
standard, and no matter our background, our bond as Red Raiders unifies us in a common
cause and in our responsibility to one another.
This past spring, the University held a series of dialogues about race relations on campus,
and that work has never felt more urgent. We intend to continue these efforts in the year
ahead and I also want to call attention to the many resources that are here for students,
faculty, staff, and administrators in the meantime. We have first-rate health and counseling
services to support you and additional educational resources and programs are provided
through the Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, and the Center for Campus Life. We
will work with colleagues across the Texas Tech University System, the Athletics
Department, the Texas Tech Police Department, as well as with our elected officials and
civic leaders here in Lubbock, to ensure your safety and well-being.
We are all Red Raiders, and we are all dedicated to a University that celebrates diversity and
draws strength from it. Following the closures of this spring, we aim to return to campus as
unified as ever. That's the Texas Tech way. And it reflects our most deeply held values of
respect, inclusion, compassion, and mutual concern.
We look forward to being able to resume our campus life, and I wish all of you the best in the
weeks and months to come.
Sincerely,
Lawrence Schovanec
President
Texas Tech University


TTIC's Mission Statement says: "TTIC is committed to the values of human freedom, dignity, prosperity, and diversity." President Turk confirmed in an internal mail to the TTIC community on Tuesday that the Institute is firmly committed to those values, and supports those demanding an end to intolerance, discrimination, marginalization, and bigotry. Racism and discrimination have devastating effects on society. Silence plays a key role in upholding and supporting narratives that contribute to systems of oppression and injustice.

The recent killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery, along with too many others, have caused profound new grief and adversely affect our lives and the lives of those we care about in significant ways. We must individually and collectively reflect on the lives lost unnecessarily, and the systemic problems and challenges we all face as a society. The unnecessary race-based killings and violence must end.
Community Message on Racial Injustice
Sunday, May, 31st, 2020 President's Desk Speeches and Messages

May 31, 2020

Dear members of the Tufts University community,

This spring has been a difficult one for our entire community, as all of our lives have taken turns that were inconceivable just months ago. But it is important to recognize that we have not all been challenged in the same ways. The coronavirus pandemic, with its disproportionate impact on the health and economic status of communities of color, has revealed, once again, the deep disparities that continue to exist in our nation. And the recent acts of violence against Black people demonstrate, once again, the racism and injustice that persist in our society.

I recognize that I have the privilege of being able to go for a jog or put on a mask without fearing that my skin color will make me a target. Not all members of our society—and our Tufts community—enjoy such privilege. To our Black students, faculty, staff and alumni, please know that I stand with you in demanding these injustices stop.

As a community, we want to come together, share our pain, and find a way to be a part of the solution. But we are currently separated around the world. I hope we can use our distance as a strength, rather than a barrier. Let’s work to improve the communities in which we find ourselves today and hope that by our actions, we can begin to knit this nation together.

I hope you will stay safe and support one another during these difficult times.

Best wishes,

Tony Monaco

A MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT LILY D. McNAIR "Dear Students, Alumni, Colleagues and Friends:


This past week, we have all experienced a range of emotions after viewing the horrific and senseless murder of George Floyd at the hands of law enforcement officials. As a mother, wife and president of Tuskegee University with more than 2,800 students – of which 35% are male – I am concerned about your safety and futures. While Black males have been the most obvious targets of police brutality and mistreatment, I am equally distressed about the fate of Black women who have increasingly suffered from similar miscarriages of justice.


I have a particularly heightened sense of concern for your safety and general well-being during these trying times. After watching the weekend protests occurring in major cities in the country, my heart sank again as I saw the video of two students from our sister institutions of Morehouse College and Spelman College who were forcibly removed from their vehicle and tasered by Atlanta police without obvious provocation. The death of George Floyd and these subsequent protests have exposed the troubling state of our country on many fronts – including racial disparities, social injustices, and economic inequalities that disproportionately affect the poor and people of color. Although many of you may choose to participate in these protests, I ask that you be mindful of the notable cause of peaceful protests. 


You are an important part of my family, so I ask that you stay safe. We will be working with student leaders and others over the coming days and weeks to engage in action-oriented solutions focused on anti-racism, peace, equality, and social justice reform. Join the Division of Student Affairs on Thursday, June 4, at 8:00 p.m. central time on Zoom for ""Know Peace, Know Justice: A Safety and Mental Health Discussion."" The Zoom link will be sent separately and posted on social media.


Stay safe. Stay focused. Know that we will get through this together.


Sincerely,
 
Lily D. McNair, Ph.D.
President"

Minneapolis, Louisville, Atlanta
Published May 30, 2020

Dear university community,

At the University at Buffalo, we believe that intolerance, hatred and institutional racism have no place in our community or our nation. That is precisely why our university—in principle and in practice—has deliberately cultivated a diverse, inclusive community grounded in respect for each other’s humanity.
 
As a university community, we are deeply saddened by the lives senselessly taken in Minneapolis, Atlanta and Louisville. As we watch neighborhoods and cities consumed by destruction and chaos, we mourn peacefully but not passively.
 
Instead, with unwavering compassion, let us lift our voices together and, as one, pledge that all people—regardless of race or gender—be afforded a life of liberty, equality, opportunity and dignity.

Sincerely,
 
Satish K. Tripathi
President


Important Message from UAB Leaders
by Tyler Greer
June 01, 2020 Print Email
UAB Community,

Integrity, respect, accountability, diversity and inclusiveness are shared values of our institution and are at the core of what it means to be a UAB Blazer. Everybody counts every day. The students, faculty and staff who comprise our richly diverse and inclusive campus — and take pride in living these values — are hurting, along with our community and country.

The senseless murder of George Floyd — fueled by racism and hate — is tragic, unacceptable and not isolated. The recent abhorrent killings of Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery show a disturbing pattern and are proof that an intentional focus on the values we espouse as members of the UAB community are needed now. These incidents have continued to surface as we navigate the COVID-19 pandemic, which has highlighted the systemic health disparities in African American and Latinx communities consistently addressed by leadership in our School of Medicine, as well as uneven enforcement of social distancing executive orders and anti-Asian bias. 

Nothing we can say can heal the deep pain and fear in our community. But we can recognize injustice and actively and purposefully live for integrity, respect, accountability, diversity and inclusiveness every day. Do not let your concern subside. Be a difference for positive change.

We are proud of and affirm our student government association's condemnation of these tragedies and its message encouraging fellow students to take actions beyond words with "donations, signing petitions, safely attending protests, and exercising your civic duties."

There are many opportunities to get involved. We encourage all of our students, faculty and staff to learn more about and seek the resources and programming offered by UAB's Student Multicultural and Diversity Programs and Office of Diversity Equity and Inclusion. 

Self-care is important in times like these. If you need them, utilize the free counseling services UAB offers through Student Counseling Servicesand the Employee Assistance Counseling Center.

Please take care of yourself and each other.

Sincerely,

Ray L. Watts, President

Pam Benoit, Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost

Allen Bolton, Senior Vice President for Finance and Administration

Selwyn Vickers, Senior Vice President for Medicine and Dean, School of Medicine

Jim Bakken, Interim Chief Communications Officer

Shannon Blanton, Dean, Honors College

Tom Brannan, Vice President for Advancement

Jennifer Breland, President, Staff Council

Chris Brown, Vice President for Research

Andrew Butler, Dean, School of Health Professions

Curt Carver, Vice President for Information Technology/Chief Information Officer

Autumn Cypres, Dean, School of Education

Paulette Dilworth, Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Paul Erwin, Dean, School of Public Health

Will Ferniany, CEO, UAB Health System

Kasia Gonnerman, Dean, Libraries

Doreen Harper, Dean, School of Nursing

Ria Hearld, Chair, Faculty Senate

Mark Ingram, Director of Athletics

Eric Jack, Dean, School of Business

Alesia Jones, Chief Human Resources Officer

John Jones, Vice President for Student Affairs 

Lori McMahon, Dean, Graduate School

Kelly Nichols, Dean, School of Optometry

Kathy Nugent, Executive Director, Harbert Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship

Rosie O'Beirne, Interim Associate Vice President for Digital Strategy and Marketing

Robert Palazzo, Dean, College of Arts and Sciences

Russell Taichman, Dean, School of Dentistry

Tim Wick, Interim Dean, School of Engineering 

UA Little Rock Stands with Students, Faculty, and Staff
JUNE 2, 2020

Trojan Family,

This is a difficult time for our country as we struggle with the harmful effects of racism. We grieve with the families of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and so many others. I want you to know that UA Little Rock stands against racism and hate and stands with those who support social justice and equality.

As an institution, we are not immune to issues of inequity and intolerance. Particularly with regard to issues of race and ethnicity, we have not done enough. While we still have much room for improvement, we are committed to doing the work that is required of us to ensure we provide members of our campus community with the space and support to operate authentically in their identity, free from harassment and disrespect.

I know there are members of our campus community, especially those who identify as African American, who are in great pain at this time as you struggle to process this latest tragedy, while navigating the enduring systems of discrimination that you face in your day-to-day life. We want you to know that you have a place at UA Little Rock, and it is important that we continue to work together to ensure the safety and well-being of every member of our campus community. We are here for you and we care for you. You matter.

I am committed to making sure that every member of our campus community is valued, respected, and celebrated–we are stronger together.

Christina S. Drale
Chancellor


Together against Racism and Injustice
June 1, 2020

Dear UBC community:

Recent anti-Black and anti-Asian violence in communities across North America has focused our attention on the deeply rooted racism in Canada and globally.  UBC itself is not immune to racism and injustice.

As a university, we need to make it crystal clear that racism and bias have no place in our community and that we have zero tolerance for it.

On behalf of the University, I condemn and denounce all incidents of anti-Black and anti-Asian racism and the continued racism and oppression that is directed at Indigenous communities. We must work together to dismantle the tools of oppression and white supremacy that remain prevalent and entrenched in our everyday systems.  It is my hope that at least here at UBC, we can work to model a different kind of community – one where we embrace difference and work to build each other up while enacting values of dignity, mutual respect, and justice.

Deeply connected to the wider region, and benefiting from the privilege of being on unceded land, UBC must be responsive to the needs of our wider community and committed to advancing the understanding of equity, diversity, and inclusion. As a public sector institution, we have an obligation and commitment towards the public good; and as a place of learning and engagement, we are uniquely positioned to generate and mobilize knowledge that can transform systems of oppression and support emerging leaders that can help shape not only our campus, but workplaces and communities beyond our campuses. As such we will be organizing a series of public engagements focused on anti-racism.

As the President of UBC, I reaffirm our institutional commitment to inclusion and call for the acceleration and intensification of efforts to build a more inclusive campus community.  Over the coming weeks, I will

Ensure adequate resources to implement the goals and actions of the Inclusion Action Plan.
Meet with the Black Caucus and the Asian Canadian Community Engagement Group.
Support the diversification of the professoriate through the allocation of President’s Excellence Chairs to Black and Indigenous faculty members.
Support identity-based spaces and organizations and ensure that they continue to receive the funding they need.
Fulfill commitments within the Inclusion Action Plan for the recruitment, retention and support of Black students, staff, and faculty.
Ensure that all our public safety officers and other authority figures are adequately trained to eliminate any unconscious or implicit bias.
Endeavour to diversify our community at every level through defined programs.
As recommended by the External review of the Equity & Inclusion Office, establish a dotted line reporting relationship to the Associate Vice President, Equity & Inclusion.
I will also be working closely with members of our administration, the Associate Vice President, Equity & Inclusion, and relevant committees and groups to assess and look at ways that we can enhance our efforts to build a more inclusive campus. We will host a  virtual town hall to elevate voices that are traditionally silenced in our institution and to monitor progress.

At UBC, diversity is our strength – inclusion of different perspectives and experiences is critical to the wellbeing of our community and the individual and collective pursuit of excellence. We can play a role against hatred, oppression, violence and injustice and find a way to support and elevate those who have been traditionally, systemically, and historically marginalized.

I encourage you to think about the role you can play in fighting racism and with that I urge you to read this post on solidarity and anti-racist action from our colleagues at the Equity & Inclusion Office.

If you are in need of support with respect to your wellbeing, please contact UBC Counselling Services or EFAP, explore some ways for self-care, and if you feel that you have faced discrimination while working or studying at UBC, please contact our human rights team. This post on sustainable self-care may also be useful.

On a personal note, I say to racialized students and colleagues at UBC: this is not the first time in history that you have experienced heightened stigmatization and racism. You are strong and resilient and will thrive in the face of this as you have done throughout history. Please don’t let racism cloud your spirit. Go and be the brilliant minds and compassionate hearts that you are, and continue to shine at UBC. You belong here.

If you think there is more UBC can do, I want to hear from you at presidents.office@ubc.ca.

Santa J. Ono
President and Vice-Chancellor

Letter to the UBC Community

A message from campus leaders: Standing together
MAY 29, 2020


EmailPrint
Chancellor Carol Christ and Oscar Dubón, Jr., vice chancellor for equity and inclusion, sent the following message to the campus community on Friday:

While we all profoundly feel the suffering and loss related to COVID-19—suffering and loss visited disproportionately on those who are Black, indigenous, people of color, and poor—we are appalled by the racist killings of recent weeks. We write to express our outrage; we stand in steadfast solidarity with our Black community; and we offer heartfelt condolences to the loved ones of the victims of the racially-motivated violence that is taking place in various communities across America. Unchecked violence at the hands of police and civilians requires our – and all of society's – urgent attention.

As a campus community, we stand with the family of Ahmaud Arbery, who was murdered while jogging in Georgia by two white men. We stand with Christian Cooper, who was the victim of a woman's attempt to use the police as a weapon against him while he pursued his passion for birdwatching in New York's Central Park. We stand with the loved ones of Breonna Taylor, an essential worker during this pandemic who was killed in her home by police. We stand against the senseless killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis by a police officer who knelt on his neck, while three others watched and assisted, as Mr. Floyd choked out the same final words of another slain Black man, Eric Garner: "I can't breathe."

Let us say their names, acknowledge their humanity, and commit to doing what we can to build a more just society.

Let us also acknowledge that while these names and incidents made their way into the national news and discourse, they are not by any means isolated, nor is the racism that underlies them.

According to Rutgers University Sociologist Frank Edwards, one out of every 1,000 Black men in America will be killed by a police officer. This makes them two and half times more likely than white men to die during encounters with officers.

Less noticed by the mainstream media but equally important to elevate are Black women, gender non-conforming and trans people who have been murdered in recent weeks and months.

We must call out and hold accountable our broken structures, build bridges that will lead to mutual understanding and respect across differences, and work to create a future in which we can all thrive, especially in these most challenging times. This work must happen across the nation – and it must happen on a local level as well.

We acknowledge the grief, anger, sadness, helplessness, and outrage that these killings create in our community. Let us channel those feelings toward a commitment to each others' wellness. If you would like support, please contact UC Berkeley Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). Counselors are available for phone and video counseling appointments. There are also new online self-help tools. Visit the CAPS website, call Counseling and Psychological Services at (510) 642-9494, or, when the Tang Center is closed, call the after-hours counseling line (855) 817-5667. CAPS employs mental health professionals trained to provide support to individuals from a wide array of identities, including traditionally marginalized or disenfranchised groups.

In addition, Be Well at Work – Employee Assistance provides free confidential counseling and referrals for our faculty, staff, visiting scholars, and postdocs. To schedule an appointment with an Employee Assistance counselor, please contact (510) 643-7754 or email employeeassistance@berkeley.edu.

Finally, please be aware of the following resources:

Student Organizations: Our campus has numerous and diverse student organizations that students may wish to get involved in. You can explore at callink.berkeley.edu.
Centers for Educational Justice & Community Engagement: These centers provide space, programs, and services for Berkeley's diverse student communities. Learn more at ejce.berkeley.edu/mcc or (510) 642-6528.
Reporting: For information and support on reporting hate crimes or hate-motivated acts, visit stophate.berkeley.edu.
As a campus community, we must uphold a standard of care and respect in both words and actions that lives up to our values and principles of community. This is a time for greater self-examination of society's institutions and structures—including our university—and a bold commitment to healthier national and campus cultures. In this way, we honor lives lost or forever changed through acts of hate and violence by bringing about change for justice and belonging.
To the UC Davis Community:

"I can't breathe." These were the last words uttered by Eric Garner as he was being murdered on Staten Island in 2014.

"I can't breathe."These were among the last words spoken by George Floyd as he suffered the same fate under hauntingly similar circumstances in Minneapolis on Monday evening.

In 2014, I tried to explain the Garner incident to my daughters. Yesterday, I tried to explain the Floyd incident to myself. In both cases, I fell short. Murder captured on video defies explanation.

Needless to say, these tragedies hit my family and me hard. I know it's touched a deep nerve with many of you as well. You have reached out to express your support, concern, sadness and anger, and I appreciate it. To be honest, it's been difficult for me to know how to address this because it is so personal.

I lived in Georgia for nearly 30 years, where Ahmaud Arbery was hunted and killed. George Floyd could have been any African American man, including me. Beyond the constant barrage of fear of the negative consequences of birding while black, shopping while black, cooking out while black, exercising while black — it is just exhausting. And I'm tired.

I can't claim to speak for all African Americans or all people of color. And to ask me or others like me to do so is a burden others don't have to carry. So I have thought a lot about how America got here, so long ago, and why we haven't made as much progress as we often claim.

The events of this week also cause me to believe even more strongly, if that's possible, in building an inclusive environment that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. I remain committed to that and hope you will do what you can to eliminate racism, sexism, and other negative influences on our progression as a nation.

Perhaps higher education can be that positive influence on lives beyond an education. Perhaps here we can create a way forward. Perhaps here we can breathe.

Sincerely,

Gary S. May
Chancellor

Category
Messages and Announcements
Tags
Chancellor's Messages
Offices of the Chancellor and Provost
Fifth Floor, Mrak Hall
University of California, Davis
One Shields Avenue
Davis, CA 95616

(530) 752-2065

Categories
Messages and Announcements
Speeches
Related Articles
Kayton Carter, Renetta Garrison Tull and Chancellor May stand together in a moment of silence. 
Checking In With Chancellor May: Beyond the Moment
June 05, 2020
Provost Hexter standing outside looking at camera
A Message to Our Students as We Near the Close of Spring 2020
June 04, 2020
Chancellor May sitting at desk writing a letter
Checking In With Chancellor May: A Way Forward
May 29, 2020
Chancellor Gary May seriously and thoughtfully looking to the side
Checking In With Chancellor May: Reflection
May 22, 2020
Chancellor May sitting at desk writing a letter
Coronavirus Update for Incoming Fall 2020 Students
May 21, 2020

In Support of the African American Community
May 31, 2020
Dear UCI Community:

We watched with shock and horror the video of a white policeman callously, even casually, kneeling on the neck of an unarmed and unresisting black man until that man was dead, while other policemen stood by and watched.  This brutal and racist act was like something out of Mississippi during Jim Crow, out of the past we don't acknowledge enough, but it wasn't.  It is our reality, in the here and now, a reality that reflects the harsh, brutal, terrible, ongoing legacy of America's original sin.

We empathize with the pain, sadness, and anger that many Black students, employees, and alumni understandably are feeling.  Please reach out to any of us if we can help you during this extraordinary time.

The unrest that is roiling our country, from coast to coast, is a profoundly distressing statement of the crisis of our society.  At the core of this crisis is the reality of anti-Black racism in the United States.  The death of George Floyd was not isolated.  Breonna Taylor, a first responder, died in a hail of gunfire in her Louisville home in March.  Tony McDade, a Black trans-masculine person, was shot and killed by Tallahassee police.  Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia was hunted down and murdered by vigilantes.  His story is all too familiar.  Unarmed, Trayvon Martin was killed by George Zimmerman in 2012.  Their crime: jogging and walking while Black.  This sickening and outrageous roll call goes on and on.

The response to these and other unjustified deaths reflects a profound and justified sense of grievance and frustration with policing and our justice system.  The unrest that we are witnessing is no less about the persistence of systematic oppression and exclusion in educational opportunity, participation in the economy, access to health care, and all areas of social life essential to social justice and human well being.   

As Vice Chancellor Haynes noted in his message last Thursday, the experience of anti-Blackness belies the notion that "We are all in this together." 

But if we are to survive, as a nation, as a society, we must be in this together.  

Here at UCI, an institution devoted to the betterment of the world, our Inclusive Excellence Action Plan focuses on promoting a campus culture defined by community, thriving, and wellness.  That is not enough.  We can and must do more. All of us, collectively, must confront the distinctive, fundamental reality of anti-Blackness. We must also look forward and explore what we can do—in our practices, our teaching, our research, our community engagement, our interpersonal interactions—to mitigate the pervasive and systemic injustices and brutalities of anti-Blackness.

To this end, Vice Chancellor Haynes will develop and launch by fall 2020 a wide-ranging initiative.  With input from campus stakeholders and community, this initiative will ensure that our campus community is educated about anti-Blackness, takes steps to dismantle anti-Black sentiment, enhances scholarly expertise and research, promotes the intellectual and cultural capital of Black communities, transforms the professoriate and knowledge workforce of the future, and identifies other ways we can rise to the serious challenges confronting all of us.   

We stand in unity with the African-American community to deepen everyone's understanding so that we make this world a better place, for today and for future generations.  To do this work we must be in this together.

Let there be light for us all,

Chancellor Howard Gillman
Interim Provost Hal Stern
Vice Chancellor, Student Affairs Willie Banks
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Douglas Haynes
UCI Chief of Police Liz Griffin
The Pain Behind the Protests
Campus Update
To the Campus Community:

Across the country, people are horrified by the recent killings of three African Americans: Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd. We share that outrage. And these are only a few of the most recent deaths to cause particular anguish amongst those who for too long have endured cruelty after cruelty, indignity after indignity.

What stood out about the killing of George Floyd — more than its senselessness, more than its brutality – was its casualness. What was so chilling was the relaxed demeanor of a police officer — sworn to protect and to serve — his hands calmly in his pockets, kneeling on the neck of a fellow human being, indifferent to his cries of pain and the fear for his life. Equally harrowing was his three fellow officers who stood there and did not recognize the need to intervene in a life or death situation. All these behaviors reflected the utter dehumanization of Black life.

We must never let that indifference to human suffering become our own. We must never deaden our hearts to the pain of others. Our fundamental values demand that we care.

At UCLA, we believe deeply that equity, respect and justice are central to the character of our institution, to the health of our democracy and to the well-being of our world. Still, we recognize that UCLA also can and must do better. As campus leaders, we recommit ourselves to ensuring that our policies and actions value the lives, safety and dignity of every Bruin.

We have begun the process of coordinating virtual reflection spaces for departments and units, where we can come together to try and process what has happened. With assistance from the Office for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion and the university’s Equity Advisors, we are also trying to share ways we can honestly and humbly acknowledge the pain and search for solutions. This includes working with student government leaders to understand and address the needs of our students. Our efforts will be updated on the Resources for Racial Trauma web page as we push forward to deeper understanding and genuine change.

We conclude by stating unequivocally that Black lives DO matter. They matter at UCLA. They matter in Minnesota. They matter everywhere.

In solidarity,
Gene D. Block
Chancellor
Emily A. Carter
Executive Vice Chancellor and
Provost
Michael Meranze
Chair, Academic Senate
Michael J. Beck
Administrative Vice Chancellor
Gregg Goldman
Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer
Monroe Gorden, Jr.
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Jerry Kang
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity
and Inclusion
Michael S. Levine
Vice Chancellor for Academic Personnel
John Mazziotta
Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences
CEO, UCLA Health

Louise C. Nelson
Vice Chancellor for Legal Affairs
Mary Osako
Vice Chancellor for Strategic Communications

Rhea Turteltaub
Vice Chancellor for External Affairs
Roger Wakimoto
Vice Chancellor for Research
Yolanda J. Gorman
Senior Advisor to the Chancellor and Chief of Staff

Dan Guerrero
The Alice and Nahum Lainer Family Director of Athletics
Antonio E. Bernardo
Dean, Anderson School of
Management
Ronald S. Brookmeyer
Dean, Fielding School of Public Health
Eric Bullard
Dean, Continuing Education and UCLA Extension

Miguel A. García-Garibay
Dean, Division of Physical Sciences
Robin L. Garrell
Vice Provost, Graduate Education
Dean, Graduate Division

Darnell M. Hunt
Dean, Division of Social Sciences
Brian Kite
Interim Dean, School of Theater, Film and Television

Paul H. Krebsbach
Dean, School of Dentistry
Kelsey Martin
Dean, David Geffen School of Medicine
Jennifer L. Mnookin
Dean, School of Law
Jayathi Y. Murthy
Dean, Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science

Linda Sarna
Dean, School of Nursing
Gary M. Segura
Dean, Luskin School of Public Affairs
David Schaberg
Dean, Division of Humanities
Victoria Sork
Dean, Division of Life Sciences

Brett Steele
Dean, School of the Arts and Architecture
Eileen Strempel
Dean, The Herb Alpert School of
Music
Marcelo Suárez-Orozco
Dean, Graduate School of Education & Information Studies

Pat Turner
Senior Dean, College
Dean and Vice Provost, Undergraduate Education

Tony Lee
Chief of UCLA Police Department
Naomi Riley
President, Undergraduate Students Association
Jean Paul Santos
President, Graduate Students Association
 
UC Riverside Mourns the Death of George Floyd
KIM A. WILCOX
Chancellor
May 29, 2020
Dear Campus Community,

In March and early April, elected leaders held daily press conferences in which they reported the number of ventilators they had secured. In hospitals and labs, physicians, scientists, and device manufacturers looked for new ways to help patients suffering from COVID-19 breathe. Both federal and state entities went to great expense to ensure that those who needed it had air.

Then, this week, videos showed a police officer with his knee pushing into the neck of an African American man named George Floyd, while two others held his legs as he took his last breath. Before he died, Floyd pleaded, "I can't breathe," to the men who took his life. 

There is no denying that air is sought for some and stolen from others. 

The death of George Floyd follows the death of Ahmaud Arbery, an unarmed African American man chased down and shot by white men while jogging near his home in Georgia. 

We represent an institution committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion. To those of you who too well understand the fear of being arrested, assaulted or killed because of the color of your skin – from ongoing Anti-Black racism to COVID-19 Anti-Asian upsurges, we want you to know we are with you and grateful that you are a part of our community. We will continue to foster an environment that not only values equality but fights inequity where we see it.

Our country has buried too many in recent months. We mourn all of these lost lives but today grieve most deeply a loss that didn't have to be and reaffirm our commitment to work toward a better tomorrow. 
Statement on George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery
Today our hearts are burdened, our minds are searching, and our spirits are processing a mix of disbelief, anger and sadness. The news of George Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on Monday night and the disturbing video of his final moments has shocked the world. Taken in context with the recent killings of Breonna Taylor (by police in her own home) and Ahmaud Arbery (by neighbors while jogging), our black community members, in particular, are outraged, traumatized, fearful and in profound pain.

Grief and concern in their purest forms have been made even more poignant during this time of great uncertainty due to the global public health crisis. The coronavirus pandemic has magnified the long history of racism in our country, ongoing inequity, and the status quo of the dehumanization of our fellow Black Americans.

How do we react? What do we do? Where do we start?
We begin by extending our sincere, heartfelt sympathies to the loved ones of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We join in mourning their unspeakably tragic and untimely deaths. We stand in solidarity with our black family, friends and neighbors in their time of need and help them shoulder their everyday lives so that they have the necessary time to mourn and process the deeper meanings of these losses. And most importantly, no matter how painful, difficult or uncomfortable, we must review these events with full transparency and recognize there are systemic problems in our society that desperately need our attention, time and energy to remedy.

We must recognize the violation of human rights and the devastating effects that systemic racism, oppression and violence have on the safety, security and health of communities of color. We cannot let these acts be normalized or allow ourselves to become numb to them. The University of California San Diego unequivocally condemns the disproportionate use of excessive force by some police in communities of color.

We also denounce vigilante acts that terrorize members of the community based upon race, ethnicity, country of origin, religion, disability, gender, gender identity, or sexual orientation. We as a community must not and will not tolerate acts of hate, bias or violence. We are committed to doing what can be done within our institution to make sure everyone feels that they belong and that they matter. This should be our commitment to ourselves and to each other.

Where do we go from here?
In the coming weeks, our Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion has planned community conversations to provide spaces for healing and identifying ways to be agents of change in this moment. Details are forthcoming and will be communicated via campus notice.

We know that statements such as these do not resolve the intractable issues we face as a country. We know it does not even begin to heal the hurt and trauma caused by structural and systemic racism and discrimination. Collectively, let us continue to work together for a more just, equitable and humane society in our service, activism, pedagogy, and community and collaborative efforts.

Pradeep K. Khosla
Chancellor

Elizabeth H. Simmons
Executive Vice Chancellor

Maripat Corr
Chair, San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

Steven Constable
Vice Chair, San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

David A. Brenner
Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences

Margaret S. Leinen
Vice Chancellor for Marine Sciences

Sandra A. Brown
Vice Chancellor for Research

Gary C. Matthews
Vice Chancellor for Resource Management and Planning

Pierre Ouillet
Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer

Becky R. Petitt
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion

Alysson Satterlund
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Judy Bruner
Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer

Anne L. Buckley
Chief Communications and Marketing Officer

Vince Kellen
Chief Information Officer

Patty Maysent
Chief Executive Officer for UC San Diego Health

Daniel W. Park
Chief Campus Counsel

Nancy Resnick
Chief Human Resource Officer

David S. Rose
Chief of Police

Michael Trigilio
Chair of the Committee on Diversity and Equity
San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

SHARE
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Email
Print


Statement on George Floyd
To: UC Santa Cruz Community

From: Chancellor Cynthia Larive

May 29, 2020

SHARE THIS STORY:TwitterFacebookLinkedInReddit
Dear Campus Community,

I write today to share our pain, sadness, and anger for the murder of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota. In the midst of this unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic, the all too common violence and threat of violence perpetrated against Black people and other communities of color in our country escalates. George Floyd’s death is part of an appalling history of racist harassment, assault, and murder that stretches back far too long in the life of our nation. There are too many victims whose experiences never made headlines and whose names will never become public. I know that grief weighs heavily on many members of our community. I struggle with my own sense of heartbreak.

Our university struggles with and works within the same context of white supremacist systems, structures, and conditions that make life more dangerous and precarious for people of color. Universities, like our country, have taken too long to translate our ideals into action or sustainable change. Transforming the university takes work, and we are still engaged in that work. The pace of change is frustratingly slow and the instruments of change are imperfect. The difficulties of this past year for our community highlight how far we have to go. 

I encourage you to reach out to campus services for support. In addition to support services offered by staff in our colleges and resource centers, Counseling and Psychological Services provides assistance for students. For employees, the Employee Assistance Program can provide counseling and support.

Sincerely,

Cindy

Our community and events in Minneapolis and Chicago
 
To: Members of the University Community
From: Ka Yee C. Lee, Provost
Subject: Our community and events in Minneapolis and Chicago
Date: May 30, 2020
 
Our nation is confronting painful issues in the wake of the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis and a number of other racially motivated incidents. These recent examples represent a small fraction of the bias and violence that occurs across the U.S. and around the world each day. The deep alarm expressed by people throughout the country, including in our home of Chicago, reflects many decades of grief and anguish over the intractable scourge of racism against minority communities, particularly African Americans.
 
I know that many of you are feeling sadness, pain, and anger over these recent events. In these already difficult times, this is an occasion for solidarity and for a strengthened commitment to care for each other and work to improve our community, our city and, our nation. Even though most of us are separated by distance as this quarter comes to a close, our shared values bind us together to seek truth, value diversity, and strive for justice.
 
Diversity and inclusion are core values of our institution. We value every member of our campus community, and each of us should show respect for one another. The vitality of the South Side is fundamentally linked with that of the University, and we esteem the deep relationships and partnerships that the residents of the South Side and members of the University community have built together. Fostering a sense of trust, inclusion, belonging and safety for our faculty, other academic appointees, staff, and students is always a priority, and especially so during this time. In the coming days, there will be more information about opportunities for our community to come together in dialogue about these issues.
 
We also encourage you to access the many valuable University resources that may be helpful to you right now:
 
The Center for Identity + Inclusion engages students and members of our University community from all backgrounds to ensure personal, academic, and professional growth, and success.
The Center for the Study of Race, Politics, and Culture offers a wide array of programming, including a Zoom series focused on the racial disparities of COVID-19.
The Pozen Center for Human Rights offers regular programming about global human rights.
Spiritual Life serves as a destination for religious and spiritual needs.
UChicago Student Wellness offers counseling services and other support for students impacted by these and other events.
The Urban Health Initiative runs inclusive community grants and organizes a variety of community programs and services.
The Diversity & Inclusion website features a listing of related events happening across campus.
 
Thank you for the continuing work of people across our University to build a strong, supportive, and inclusive community.
 
 
Keywords: 
Announcements
Diversity and Inclusion
It is hard not to be haunted by the brutal reality that Dr. King’s words are needed as much in 2020 as they were in 1967. America has failed to hear the profound ways we are, repeatedly, failing each other. And not only in small, I-will-do-better-next-time ways. But in the biggest way imaginable—by failing to fight for the basic humanity of our neighbor. Our hearts ache for the family and friends of George Floyd, as they continue to do so for the loved ones of Samuel DuBose. We must agree destruction of our neighborhoods is not the answer. Let us instead heed the clarion call from President Obama to "work together to create a ‘new normal’ in which the legacy of bigotry and unequal treatment no longer infects our institutions or our hearts."
From the Chancellor - Standing against hate and violence
May 29, 2020

As I see national news stories about the death of George Floyd and other recent acts of racism, I reflect on the conversations I had earlier this year with our students about these very issues. 

Even though a global pandemic is keeping us apart from each other, I share in your pain, anger and sadness. When we see acts of racism, it affects us deeply and takes a physical, mental and emotional toll. We must reach out and support each other as we process what has happened. For me, I will not lose hope. I take heart in how our students have engaged with us over the last academic year. We had honest conversations in a genuine effort to enhance campus climate together and build a more welcoming, safe and inclusive community for all.

These intolerable injustices, whether they happen in Minnesota, New York or here in Colorado, strike at the core of everything we believe. Let me be clear: I am committed to diversity and inclusion of everyone on our campus. 

We stand in solidarity with all members of our campus community, including our police department and the city of Boulder in encouraging and supporting peaceful demonstrations.

As a campus community, it is incumbent on us to encourage civil discourse that lifts us all from this darkness. Universities can be, and must be, at the heart of social change. As a campus, we continuously work to cultivate a diverse, inclusive and welcoming community. We best illustrate this through our moral actions when we see injustice, close to home or far away.

Please take care of yourselves, each other and use our campus support resources, which continue to be available during these difficult times. 
 

Phil DiStefano,
CU Boulder Chancellor
Dear UConn Community,

Recent events have called national attention yet again to the destructive power of prejudice and racism. The death of George Floyd in police custody in Minneapolis serves as our most recent example. We are disgusted by the images we have seen capturing the unconscionable acts that caused his death. Demonstrations across the country make clear that communities are hurting and frustrated by repeated acts of violence against their neighbors, friends, and families. These events have saddened and angered so many on a deeply personal level, with the burden of fear for one's own and their family's safety placed squarely upon African-Americans.

Unfortunately, this is just one of many examples of the pain caused by systemic injustices that are present every day. Take, for example, the disproportionate rates of death by COVID-19 among African-American, Latinx, and Indigenous peoples, or the discriminatory acts targeting individuals of Asian descent and foreign nationals from many countries in this pandemic. This adds to the already vulnerable experience of so many in our community, including but not limited to DACA students who are unsure about their future; individuals with disabilities who can feel invisible; LGBTQ+ individuals experiencing verbal and physical acts of violence; individuals subjected to intolerance based on their religious identity and beliefs; and people of color who are forced to constantly question if they can engage safely in routine activities like jogging or bird watching.

These events underscore the critical importance of our infusing diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in everything we do every single day. Not with mantra and platitudes, but with clearly articulated and tangible action that is supported by the University with budget and action. As scholars, educators, and colleagues, we are uniquely positioned to reflect, learn, and act.

We are committed to this work as UConn moves forward from some of its own recent struggles. We have a crucial new partner in these efforts with the recent hire of Dr. Frank Tuitt as our new Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer. We are all eager to work with him to sustain a culture that understands, respects, and appreciates differences, but also one that readily acknowledges our shortcomings and holds ourselves accountable for measurable progress at all times.

As he looks ahead to this new role, Frank shared the following: "I strongly believe that institutions like UConn should be at the center of creating spaces for students, faculty, and staff to imagine and invent ways to build more inclusive, affirming, and equitable institutions, organizations, and communities, and I look forward to doing my part to contribute to that collective effort."

We have communicated closely with him over the past several days, and we all will benefit from his leadership and expertise.

We have the opportunity to engage our entire community in the work that is needed, building upon continued advocacy and efforts of concerned faculty, staff, and administrators at UConn in collaboration with our cultural centers and our amazing undergraduate and graduate students who are willing to speak clearly and directly about their experiences. Change cannot be carried out by one person or one office alone. Too often the labor of this work is disproportionately undertaken by our most vulnerable, impacting their career progression, as well as their mental health and overall satisfaction with their work experience. This is a time when we can build momentum to share the responsibility across our entire community at our Storrs, UConn Health, Avery Point, Hartford, Stamford, Waterbury, and law school campuses.

We also have been extremely fortunate to benefit from the stewardship of Interim Chief Diversity Officer Dana Wilder. Building on strengths of the Office for Diversity and Inclusion, we are positioned as a national leader and a place where people of all identities feel they have a genuine opportunity for success and belonging. We encourage each of you to explore their website, which includes multiple resources including trainings and guides as well as information on events and cultural centers sponsored by their office.

There are no simple solutions or easy answers to solve the issues of injustice and prejudice in society and at our University. Of all of the various parts of our experience as administrators, this is the one area where we both feel like we have not done enough or met our own expectations. We do not experience that feeling as despair, but instead as a motivator to understand and accept our own privilege and the responsibilities that it brings to do more. We encourage our community to hold our entire leadership team accountable as we carry out that vital work together.

The challenge now is to remember this moment even if it fades from the headlines and to continue to strive for a society and a UConn that allows all to live safely and welcomed.

Sincerely,
Tom and Carl

Tom Katsouleas
President

Carl Lejuez
Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs
WE CAN DO BETTER AS A UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY
Photo by Kathy F. Atkinson June 04, 2020

A message from UD President Dennis Assanis
Editor's note: President Dennis Assanis shared this message with the University community on June 4.

Dear UD Community,

Our society is calling for equity and social justice. I hear you, and I am part of that call. We can do better as a University community. And we will do it together.

Over the past several days, many of you have written to me or posted your thoughts on social media to express your anger and frustration about the racial injustices that have been laid bare by the social unrest taking place in our nation. What’s more, I have been truly heartbroken to hear the stories of discrimination and prejudice that many of you have experienced, whether in our broader society or, unfortunately, here within our own community. It is so disturbing to see that some individuals do not grasp the insidious nature of racism and the very real pain caused by offensive and exclusionary language.

Every member of our community — students, faculty, and staff — is welcomed and valued at the University of Delaware. We must ensure that everyone is treated with respect and a sense of belonging. We should seek to find commonality, humanity, and civility to bridge our differences. We condemn the discriminatory and inflammatory words used by some members of our community. They do not reflect the University’s values. We are addressing each of these situations in accordance with the University’s conduct and non-discrimination policies.

Last week, the nationwide protests began as a response to the senseless deaths of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky — as well as the long list of other victims of discrimination and violence in American history. The global consciousness that has been reawakened by these tragedies must continue to advance our progress toward a society that is anti-racist and anti-hate. Education lies at the heart of this effort and is the key to real and lasting change.

Without a doubt, the University of Delaware can and must do more to expand diversity and promote inclusion and equity in our community. Since coming to UD, I have tried to face the challenges of history and culture that I see. Indeed, building inclusive excellence has always been personally important to me. While we have made strides in diversifying our faculty ranks and our student enrollment, there is clearly additional work to be done. I am committed — as is my administration — to redoubling our efforts to increase minority representation among our students, faculty and staff. But we know that the numbers are just one component of the equation. We must work ever harder to promote a more inclusive culture throughout UD where everyone is valued and all can expand their potential and believe in a better future.

To this end, I will be working closely with campus leaders to ensure progress and action around key needs of the University. Recognizing that these are both priorities and opportunities to take UD forward, we all need to take the following steps:

We need to build a more inclusive culture — Through education for all members of our community, we can cultivate a greater appreciation of the value of diverse peoples, cultures and perspectives. This is absolutely essential in modern society and directly supports our institutional mission to prepare our citizens to succeed. This semester we piloted an online diversity, equity, and inclusion education module. We will plan to require this training of all undergraduate and graduate students beginning in this upcoming academic year.
We need to listen and learn — We are planning a series of forums that will span the entire next academic year where all members of our community will have their voices heard and acknowledged. The input gathered at these forums will help inform our next steps as we continue to improve our campus climate with actionable initiatives. We are also mindful of those who have been silent, and we encourage them to come forward and share their stories, perspectives and ideas.
We need to act now — We will strengthen our collective awareness of and response to prejudice, diligently recruit underrepresented faculty and students, and raise funds for social justice initiatives on campus. We will also connect our campus-wide efforts and networks into a more robust agenda for larger impact.
We need to ensure accountability and operate effectively together as a united community — Everyone is responsible, and this needs to be enforced through renewed policies and practices using a framework where differences are respected and celebrated. We must also ensure that our campus climate and culture assessments are frequent and thorough, and that they reaffirm our commitment to improve the diversity and inclusion landscape at UD.
We have more to do — This list is not exhaustive, nor will it ever end. Our work to build a more equitable and inclusive society must be ongoing. We will remain committed to being open, to listening and to working together to make progress possible at UD. We not only welcome your active engagement; we need it. This is a call to action for everyone here now and with ties to UD.
There will be additional steps in the coming weeks and months. I welcome your input as we move forward. Please always feel free to reach out to Michael Vaughan, interim vice provost for diversity and inclusion, at vpd@udel.edu, or José-Luis Riera, vice president for student life, at studentdiversity@udel.edu.

This is an extraordinarily challenging time for all of us. I am inspired by the strength, the caring and the unshakable resolve of the University of Delaware community, and I ask you to join me in recommitting ourselves to ensuring that our institution continues to be a source of pride for all students, all faculty, all staff, all alumni … all people.

Sincerely,

Dennis Assanis, President


George Floyd was a member of our Third Ward community and we share in the tremendous pain our community is experiencing. Our thoughts are with his friends and family, Houston and the nation at large. We mourn with you.
June 4, 2020 | Let Us Reflect on this Day of Mourning
Dear University of Idaho Faculty, Staff and Students,

Today is a National Day of Mourning to respectfully recognize the death of George Floyd and the loss to his family as well as other lives lost. Words and actions matter, especially in times of national unrest and fearfulness, and especially from institutional leaders. They can calm or provoke, heal or hurt, and at their best, motivate meaningful change for good. The memo we sent out earlier this week regarding diversity and safety missed that last mark.

Asking that we treat each other with kindness and compassion was perceived by some as a request not to engage when we witness racism or injustice. That could not be further from what was intended. We must act against racism and injustice by addressing the change that needs to occur to create social equity.

So, today, in this moment of mourning, let me be more direct:

Black lives matter, and what happened to George Floyd and so, so many other African American and black citizens is abhorrent. No human being should ever have to fear for their life based solely on the color of their skin. The tragic fact is this is not a new phenomenon, but rather an all too frequent part of our national history.
There is no room for disagreement when it comes to basic human civil rights and crimes against humanity. We have a responsibility to engage and act when we see injustice. Truly, our future as a society depends on it.
We should be able to have a difficult conversation about race and equity issues and treat each other with civility and compassion … including on social media. This does not mean we tolerate or condone racism or hate crimes; it means that we are a place where people from all backgrounds should feel safe.
Listening — and truly hearing — the concerns of African American and black students, faculty, staff, and alumni, as well as other underrepresented communities, is critical to moving forward. Action toward lasting change matters as well. After campuswide discussions, we have adopted a diversity plan that we believe will help take action and address issues of social inequity. As Vandals, let’s work together and tackle these issues. It is the only way to realize the very best future for the community. Let’s take this National Day of Mourning to pay our respects to a life unjustly taken and work on our own reflection and racial reconciliation.

Scott Green
President

president@uidaho.edu
uidaho.edu/president
The anger, sadness, and fear felt by our community, and specifically Black communities across our nation, over the killing of George Floyd are justified. This is not a new phenomenon and the Black community is, we are sure, exhausted from the constant trauma and pain of being the recipients of mistreatment by those who are tasked with serving and protecting communities—the police.

There is also disappointment, frustration, and pain due to the continued disproportionate police brutality against people of color, specifically the Black community. These inequalities manifest themselves economically and socially. No one should feel their race or any aspect of their identity makes them a target for violence. Addressing inequality requires changing hearts, minds, and systems, and the University of Iowa will continue to work toward that goal through actions. To that end, we will release an update to our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Action Plan, which our community has developed, this coming week.

Over the past several days, the images from across our nation are difficult to comprehend and elicit a range of feelings. While we will engage with these emotions individually, and on our own timeline, one thing is clear—together we must act. Each of us must lead change within our individual communities to actively disrupt racism (interpersonal, systemic, and societal).

As you know, on our campus and within our community:

    We will not tolerate anything but a safe and inclusive campus for people of all backgrounds regardless of race, creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, religion, ancestry, or disability.
    We value the First Amendment and freedom of expression and believe civil discourse and the respectful exchange of ideas are the cornerstones of higher education and this great institution.

We are here to help. Many resources are available and we encourage you to reach out and ask for help.
We, the Chancellor and Provost of the University of Kansas, are emerging, as many of you are, from a week of heart wrenching conversations about the toxic impact that racism has on all of our communities. The deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and David McAtee, and the exchange between Amy Cooper and Christian Cooper in Central Park, are just recent and high-profile additions to innumerable immoral acts of racism to Black members of our communities.

The protests across the country, in the region, and in our cities over the past week and in Lawrence Sunday night are powerful statements of the depth of pain and anger that so many of our students, colleagues and friends are feeling. We have done a lot of listening over the past several days, and we recognize the disappointment that our earlier messages created. We hear our community members when you tell us you are broken-hearted and exhausted, and that it’s too much to bear.

We know that acts of racism and discrimination, in their many forms, happen in Lawrence and at KU, and on a regular basis. We are not free of the causes of this period of protest and unrest.

The egregious acts of racism and discrimination that have been targeted toward our Black community members do not stand in isolation. Members of Asian, LatinX, Muslim, immigrant and LGBTQIA communities are also targets of hate speech, discrimination, and racialized violence. Our community members who have disabilities and those who experience challenges with mental health are often stigmatized, abandoned, and suffer in silence. Members of our Black and Native communities have been disproportionately devastated by COVID-19, which is another fatal reminder of the systemic disparities in health outcomes, availability of financial support, and educational resources for so many of our most vulnerable community members.

Our hearts break with yours. We stand with you and for you.

It’s long past time for racism and discrimination to end. If we are to be on the side of social justice, we — meaning, we as leaders, KU as an institution, and each of us as community members — simply must do the work.

We all need KU to be a place that doesn’t replicate, tolerate or perpetuate racism, systematically, systemically, or individually. We know you are anxiously waiting and hoping that we can get past talking and hollow promises, and do something together in a different way that begins to make things better. You want us to hold ourselves to a higher standard, and we are ready to step up, to take responsibility, and to place KU at the forefront of social change.

In consultation and collaboration with leaders of our communities of color and marginalized groups, we begin today to engage in actions that move us to change:

    We will convene the leaders of our campus police, the City of Lawrence Police Department, the City Manager and the Mayor to discuss policing strategies that reinforce respectful and community-engaged policing, and to re-emphasize comprehensive police training that does not permit the kinds of acts that led to the death of George Floyd and so many others.
    We will bring together the leaders of our diversity councils to establish a university-level advisory council for equity and inclusion and commit to regular and continued outreach.
    We will charge leaders across campus to participate in training that will allow us to begin the work of facilitating intergroup dialogues that bring together representatives of agent groups and target groups to open up difficult conversations.
    We will partner with leaders in higher education and in the public and private sectors across the Greater Kansas City Region to engage in initiatives that immediately begin to address root causes in key areas that impact racial violence.
    We will ensure that improving equity, diversity and inclusion is explicitly stated as a goal for each team in our COVID-19 Design Challenge and in the longer term, in all of our Jayhawks Rising strategic doing activities.

Memorial Hall Mural: Our Past, Our Present and Why It's Time to Move Forward
By President Eli Capilouto Friday

LEXINGTON, Ky. (June 5, 2020) — On Friday, June 5, University of Kentucky President Eli Capilouto sent the following message to all students, faculty and staff:

 

I have not been able to get the images out of my mind. And the images should be — and will be forever — in my mind.

For eight minutes and 46 seconds, on a street in an American city in 2020, George Floyd was suffocated to death — a knee at his neck, gasps escaping from his mouth, as he pleaded for his life and for his mother.

I can't adequately articulate the horror and disturbing nature of those images to me. I don't have words to capture the mix of emotions — of anger and sadness, disbelief and nagging recognition that we have been here before — that have gnawed at me for days.

But I also know that I can't begin to feel how a Black man or woman or the parent of a Black child processes those images, either.

To every issue, we bring our curated experiences — funneled through the prism of our mind's eye — to an incident like this one or, for that matter, to a work of music, writing or art. Those sounds, images and narratives are necessarily interpreted with the context of a given moment by generations of people over the passage of time.

The simple truth is I can't walk in their shoes. I can't be in their skin. And I can't understand what intergenerational subjugation does to families who are its victims.

But I can try for greater understanding, a deeper sense of empathy and renewed resolve to contribute to healing, to do justice and to find reconciliation. As much as racism is a systemic stain on our country, so too, are we the inheritors of Dr. King's admonition that the moral arc of the universe ultimately bends toward justice. That is where I believe we find ourselves as a campus community today. We have not been immune from racial prejudice and hate, but I believe deeply that there is a commitment to doing better tomorrow than we are doing today.

It's against that imperfect and human backdrop that I am directing our facilities team to immediately begin the process of removing the mural in Memorial Hall.

Why now? And what does this move accomplish?

Just as certain images haunt me, I also cannot escape certain conversations that, over years, remain fresh.

To many, the mural represents the work of a renowned artist, seeking in her time, to represent the evolution, however halting, of her native state. And as with all art, we seek to understand the intent of the artist and bring our own meaning and interpretation to it.

I remember a conversation at Maxwell Place with 24 African American students in the fall of 2015. There, they detailed a list of recommendations that included "racist mural in Memorial Hall." There was a conversation with one student about the mural who stopped me cold with the observation that every time he walked into a class in Memorial Hall, he was forced to reckon with the fact that his forbears were enslaved.

They were chattel; brutalized as disposable property, even though in their time, they were regarded as essential to the economy's progress.

The art, to this student, sought to glorify and sanitize that fact. And he was speaking for many others, over many years, a point made clear again to me recently as we began conversations with our student leaders on how to move forward during this fraught time. The mural once again was a symbol, not of a state's evolution, but of our unwillingness to recognize their experiences as members of our community.

Memorial Hall of course, has its own important story — the story of the UK students and Kentuckians who laid down their lives during the Great War. It is a building constructed in honor of all Kentuckians — African Americans, Native Americans, and women alike — who gave their lives to preserve liberty. 

How do we reconcile those images as perceived now with that narrative?

To be sure, we have discussed the mural for many years and made a number of important, productive efforts to seek common ground and lasting solutions. But the spaces we have created for dialogue, and the work we have commissioned to expand conversation and contextualize art, haven't worked, frankly.

Our efforts and solutions with the mural, for many of our students, have been a roadblock to reconciliation, rather than a path toward healing. That's not a criticism. It is a statement of fact and, I hope, understanding.

We need to move forward. We have a lot of discussion that needs to take place on our campus. And those discussions cannot obviate the necessity of thoughtful, but decisive, action on a number of fronts.

I don't believe we can have that conversation with the mural still, metaphorically, on the table. And, so while in the context of many significant issues we must discuss and decide upon, the mural may appear relatively small, it carries with it tremendous symbolic weight.

I want to remove that weight from the discussions we must have, so that we can act, together, as a community. As we determine how we can move forward with removing the mural, I will communicate with the campus.

There is rarely a perfect solution to challenging issues. But it is the right one, I believe, for our campus at this moment and in the years to come.

Eli Capilouto

--

Media note: Downloadable videos and photo available at https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1BTRFI3FPfLd1tR9KRhmI1AjYRjIrACui?usp=sharing

The University of Kentucky is increasingly the first choice for students, faculty and staff to pursue their passions and their professional goals. In the last two years, Forbes has named UK among the best employers for diversity, and INSIGHT into Diversity recognized us as a Diversity Champion three years running. UK is ranked among the top 30 campuses in the nation for LGBTQ* inclusion and safety. UK has been judged a "Great College to Work for" two years in a row, and UK is among only 22 universities in the country on Forbes' list of "America's Best Employers."  We are ranked among the top 10 percent of public institutions for research expenditures — a tangible symbol of our breadth and depth as a university focused on discovery that changes lives and communities. And our patients know and appreciate the fact that UK HealthCare has been named the state's top hospital for four straight years. Accolades and honors are great. But they are more important for what they represent: the idea that creating a community of belonging and commitment to excellence is how we honor our mission to be not simply the University of Kentucky, but the University for Kentucky.
Message to the UIC Community
May 29, 2020

Dear Faculty, Staff and Students,

This week we saw yet another manifestation of the racism that remains in the fabric of our society. The killing of George Floyd in Minnesota, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky, along with other recent events, remind us again, though we don’t need reminding, how far we still have to go as a society to heal centuries of discrimination and achieve true equality.

We share your grief and outrage and we encourage you to continue to live the values of our university — to be inclusive, to treat each other with dignity and respect, and to provide a safe and supportive environment for each other.

At UIC, we are committed to addressing the deep systemic injustice of racism and advancing equity and inclusion for all people in Chicago, in the nation and around the world.  We are a community that values our differences, our diversity and our shared compassion for humanity. We will always strive to be one grounded in mutual understanding and respect.

If you need support coping with the disturbing events that occurred this week, we encourage you to use the many resources on campus available to support students, faculty and staff.

Sincerely,

Michael Amiridis
Chancellor

Susan Poser
Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs

Robert Barish
Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs

J. Rex Tolliver
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Print Friendly, PDF & Email
Contact
UIC News staff

uicnews-staff@uic.edu
          Reflecting on the events in Minneapolis and beyond
May 30, 2020 11:19 AM

Dear Students, Staff and Faculty,

We, along with so many, are struggling to fully comprehend the systemic violence and the actions of members of the Minneapolis Police Department that resulted in the death of George Floyd this week. This is the home of one of the members of our Big Ten university family and our thoughts are with our colleagues and the broader Minneapolis-St. Paul community today.

And while George Floyd is who we see and mourn this week, we have also witnessed the senseless deaths of Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor this spring.

We stand in the middle of a global health crisis that will claim hundreds of thousands of lives and burden millions of others for a generation to come. These are days when the health of our communities depends entirely on our collective commitment to care for one another. This is when we most need to come together.

It is painful to watch streets filled with more anger and more violence sparked by divisive sources of hatred that our nation seems unable to set aside even when we are all threatened by this virus that does not discriminate in choosing who it harms.

For some of us, this is very, very personal. But the grief, sadness and loss is profound and universal.

The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is a community committed to the scholarship, engagement, equity, inclusion and leadership that dismantles systems that utilize power, privilege and violence to disenfranchise, diminish and destroy.

And unfortunately, this same pandemic that has disrupted so much, also prevents us from coming together physically here at Illinois. We are not able to help each other process what we are seeing and what we are feeling in the way we would wish. So, today, when we cannot raise our voices together, we want to share this message in the hope that it will remind everyone that we do not have to remain silent alone.  

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery. Breonna Taylor. We can say their names and we can help ensure that they are not allowed to be forgotten.  

Sincerely,

Robert J. Jones
Chancellor

Barry Benson
Vice Chancellor for Advancement

Andreas C. Cangellaris
Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and Provost

Sean C. Garrick
Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Susan A. Martinis
Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation

Danita M. B. Young
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

 

          
                   
                  
This mailing approved by:
Office of the Chancellor

sent to:
Everyone
          
                   
 
Massmail Archive   •   Massmail powered by Webtools
 
Students lead the way toward reconciliation
Dr. Joseph Savoie -- Sun, 05/31/2020 - 2:23pm
Dear members of the University family,

George Floyd. Ahmaud Arbery. Breonna Taylor. Tony McDade. 

Their tragic deaths – and those of countless others – are reminders that our nation has much work to do to address discrimination, intolerance and other inexcusable barriers to social justice that have burdened us for far too long.

Universities are a place where that work can occur. Indeed, they are a place where it must occur.

It is the University’s responsibility to model principles of civility, respect and understanding for both its campus family and its wider community. Moreover, it is our duty to embody inclusivity and embrace diversity, and to educate others about their power.

Today, our students exemplified these ideals.

Members of the Student Action and Organizing Committee led a community dialogue on campus about the basic human right that all people – regardless of race, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation or ethnicity – have to live in freedom and security.

These students confronted the sadness, pain and outrage they feel about the events of the past week with clarity and thoughtfulness. They answered insular hate with the diverse voice of which this institution is so proud and from which we draw so much strength.

Our students demonstrated civic engagement and community leadership today, and I applaud them.

Moreover, they showed that the path to binding our nation’s wounds – no matter how deep, how historic and how painful – can be illuminated through conversation rather than violence.

Sincerely,

Dr. Joseph Savoie
President

UM denounces racism
Message from President David T. Barnard
JUNE 2, 2020 — 
 

Dear University Community,

Recent tragic deaths have caused immense suffering and anger as they represent a legacy of racism and police brutality against Black people. We are also witnessing alarming displays of racism against the Asian community in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic; and we recognize the interpersonal and systemic racism that is continually experienced by Indigenous Peoples.

On behalf of the University of Manitoba, I want to say clearly that we denounce racism in all its forms, we commit to solidarity with Black, Indigenous and/or People of Colour (BIPOC) and we commit ourselves to listen, to learn and to do better.

For those of us with privilege, it can be easy to ignore what’s happening, to say that it is not our problem or our story here in Canada. But silence represents ignorance and fear. We must be anti-racist. We must recognize white privilege, and that we exist in systems of white supremacy. We must remember that Canada was built on the lands of the Indigenous Peoples and on the backs of Black and Asian workers. We must join our voices to say enough is enough. 

Though I can never fully understand the experiences of racialized communities, I can commit to educating myself on their stories and histories and I encourage others to do the same. I call on our university community – united in our pursuit of knowledge – to research perspectives beyond our own, to learn the many ways that racism is enforced by our social structures, to seek out difficult truths and to acknowledge harms of the past and the present.

The University of Manitoba community believes in the inherent dignity of all people. We respect our differences, celebrate our commonalities, and are united in our mutual focus on intellectual achievement. We continue to strengthen alliances that are working to increase mutual understanding, respect and support.

Finally, to UM’s racialized students and colleagues, thank you for your strength and resilience. Thank you to those who take the time to educate your peers and colleagues and to speak your truth. Thank you for contributing to the strength of our institution.

We are sorry. Now, we must listen. We must learn. We must do better.

Sincerely,
David

To anyone who is looking for support during this time, please connect with Student Counselling Centre or Employee Assistance Program. If you have experienced discrimination while working or studying at UM, please contact our Office of Human Rights and Conflict Management. UM is also home to a number of groups who are leading crucial work to address racism, and promote diversity and inclusion. 
Statement by USM Leadership on Structural Racism and the Killing of George Floyd
Baltimore, Md. (May 29, 2020) – This week, George Floyd was killed in Minneapolis, a brutal act that recalled other recent killings of black Americans. We acknowledge with one voice the structural racism that’s taking the lives of our fellow citizens, and we stand in solidarity as we speak out against racism, anti-Semitism, sexism, discrimination against our LGBTQ and immigrant communities, religious intolerance, and bigotry of any kind.

We are justly saddened, angered, and frustrated by these acts of brutality and the lack of action when black men and women are killed. Mindful of public health guidelines, we also affirm the right of our communities to protest safely and peacefully to address their legitimate concerns.

We believe that public colleges and universities are obligated to help end inequity and to promote social justice. We draw on the leadership and wisdom of our students, faculty, and staff, many of whom confront these issues every day through their teaching, research, and activism.

We encourage all members of the USM community to seek support, if needed, and to involve themselves in addressing these challenges. We urge our students and colleagues not only to vote, but to help safeguard and improve our democracy.

In the days and weeks ahead, we will be listening to the voices of those who are too often silenced or ignored. When we gather together on campus once again, we will examine with greater resolve the racism and systemic inequities that so gravely endanger our minority communities. We are proud to be a part of a University System that believes in humanity, justice, and opportunity for all.

Please take care of yourselves, your families, and your communities during this difficult time.

Jay A. Perman, Chancellor, University System of Maryland

Aminta Breaux, President, Bowie State University
Anthony Jenkins, President, Coppin State University
Ronald Nowaczyk, President, Frostburg State University
Charles Wight, President, Salisbury University
Kim Schatzel, President, Towson University
Kurt Schmoke, President, University of Baltimore
Bruce E. Jarrell, Interim President, University of Maryland, Baltimore
Freeman A. Hrabowski III, President, University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Peter Goodwin, President, University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science
Wallace D. Loh, President University of Maryland, College Park
Heidi Anderson, President, University of Maryland Eastern Shore
Javier Miyares, President, University of Maryland Global Campus

Stewart Edelstein, Executive Director, Universities at Shady Grove
Mark Halsey, Executive Director, University System of Maryland at Hagerstown
Ben Latigo, Interim Executive Director, University System of Maryland at Southern Maryland


 
Contact: Mike Lurie
Phone: 301.445.2719
Email: mlurie@usmd.edu


Pines: Stand in Solidarity, Unite Against Injustice
President-designate Calls Acts of Violence Against Black Community Nationwide a ‘Stain’ Against UMD Values

By Maryland Today Staff  /  Jun 01, 2020

Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Email
Print this article
Campus aerial shot of Hornbake Library
President-designate Darryll J. Pines writes that the injustices against African Americans in the midst of a pandemic are a double blow to black and brown communities. "They cause additional pain and grief at a time when we are dealing with so many other challenges."
(Photo by John T. Consoli)

University of Maryland President-designate Darryll J. Pines sent the following email to the campus community this afternoon:

Dear University of Maryland Community:

On Wednesday morning, May 26, 2020, I woke up to go through my normal daily routine of getting prepared for the workday. But even before I could start my morning walk with my dog, my cellphone was already vibrating with texts and emails about something that had happened the evening before. Many colleagues, family members and friends had sent me links to the now-infamous video of yet another black man losing his life at the hands of law enforcement. This time, for allegedly using a counterfeit $20 bill at a local shop in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

I took a moment to click on the links and watch the more than nine-minute video of the last breath being sucked out of the body of Mr. George Floyd. As a black man, I screamed words that I cannot repeat here. As a father, I started to reflect on the safety of my son and daughter and on all the diverse communities who are negatively impacted by acts of injustice. I asked myself, what is wrong with our country when these incidents continue to happen time and time again?

In recent weeks we have again witnessed senseless acts of violence perpetrated against the black community. The tragic loss of lives—those of George Floyd in Minneapolis, and before that, the deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, Tony McDade and Sean Reed—due to racial violence is deeply saddening and a stain against the values that we personally hold, and that the University of Maryland, as an institution, cherishes.

The fact that these horrific acts have occurred in the midst of a pandemic is a double blow to black and brown communities. They cause additional pain and grief at a time when we are dealing with so many other challenges. But the shameful reality is that the virus has disproportionately affected communities of color. It has exposed the base inequities of our health care system and made painfully clear how those who have suffered so many other injustices for so long must also unequally bear the burden of this disease. These additional acts of racism and hatred bring into greater focus the injustices occurring in our nation.

The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., once said that:

"The ultimate measure of a man is not where one stands in moments of comfort and convenience but where one stands in times of challenge and controversy."

As a university community, we must not accept these latest incidents as inconsequential. We all must rise up and stand together to show our humanity to one another. We must remind ourselves of Dr. King’s words that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." Finally, we must heed the words of the late President John F. Kennedy, "what unites us is greater than what divides us."

Even though we are physically separated, now is the time to stand in solidarity and unite against any injustice.

Sincerely,

Darryll J. Pines
Glenn L. Martin Professor of Aerospace Engineering
President-Designate
University of Maryland

Tags:Campus & Community

Taking Action at UMass Amherst to Combat Racism: A Message from Nefertiti Walker, Interim Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
June 3, 2020
Dear Campus Community, 

Today, I write to you with a range of emotions. Fear for protesters, some of whom encounter fierce violence. Disappointment in our country for not reckoning with our intimate relationship with anti-Black racism. Frustrated at our institutions for failing to undo the institutionalized racism that we know to be true. 

For years, Black people and allies have been pleading for the end of racism and the violence that follows. Most recently, we cried out for change after the lost lives of Trayvon Martin, Tamir Rice, Michael Brown, Philando Castile, Eric Garner and Sandra Bland, and more recently Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and George Floyd. This list is not conclusive. This list is void of many lives lost to anti-Black racism, and countless other lives devastated by the omnipresence of our nation’s most pervasive disease, racism. 

We have been repeatedly challenged by this violence and by other disturbing acts – increased anti-Asian racism, growing xenophobia and escalating anti-Semitic attacks. This cannot, and will not, be our normal at UMass. We are hopeful and encouraged by the work we have been doing to combat racism and will continue to work tirelessly to undo it in our community. 

To that point, we are immediately getting to work with the following:

Respectful Workplace Training Series. In collaboration with the Office of Equity and Inclusion, Workplace Learning & Development and The Partnership for Worker Education, the purpose is to educate staff about resources available and supervisors (including faculty) on their responsibilities to ensure a university work environment grounded in antiracism, respect and inclusion.
Critical Incident Team. We are developing a triage team to respond consistently to critical campus issues and lead with humanity. More details to follow.
Campus Academy Initiative. The University of Massachusetts Police Department is applying for a team of campus and student leaders (including UMPD representation) to attend a three-day Campus Academy Initiative workshop in August 2020, offered by the Divided Community Project. The aim of the program is to immerse campus leaders in a curriculum aimed at strengthening and expanding campus-specific conflict-resolution capacity and practices. UMPD is committed to participating, as part of our community, in any training, seminar or effort to increase levels of understanding, prevention and responsiveness to critical issues like the ones we continue to see play out across our country.
Increased Data-driven Climate Assessments. We know that within our UMass community, we have micro cultures where people live – in their academic departments, classrooms and residence halls. We need to better understand these climates. Therefore, we will launch a series of assessments to measure and better understand the micro cultures that often impact our community most. This data will then be aggregated and live on the www.umass.edu/diversity website, providing transparency and the ability to inform the actions of the newly formed councils and task force below.
The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leadership Council. This council will convene immediately and be charged by the Chancellor and chaired by the Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. This group will meet regularly to assess, evaluate and advise about the university’s DEI policies and practices. Their meeting minutes will be uploaded to: www.umass.edu/diversity. 
The DEI Student Council. This will be co-chaired by the Senior Director of DEI  and the Assistant Chancellor of Advocacy, Inclusion and Support Programs. This group will meet with student DEI representatives to discuss and advance the most pressing student DEI issues. Similarly, their meeting minutes will be uploaded to: www.umass.edu/diversity.
The Task Force for Anti-racism. In response to the most recent anti-Black violence as well as the increase of other types of racism nationally, this group will be a collection of faculty, staff and students who will work to undo institutional racism in our community. They will be chaired or co-chaired by a combination of faculty, staff and students. More details to follow.
Finally, we will work with each major business unit on campus to set goals related to diversity (representation/under-representation), equity (access and opportunity), and inclusion (feeling welcome and sense of belonging). Leaders will be responsible for setting a culture of inclusion for all people in their area. Therefore, we will set and seek to meet DEI goals as they align with our campus strategic goal of inclusive excellence.

We encourage our students, staff and faculty to exercise their right to speak against the injustice they see in our society, and we implore you to join us in being part of the solutions. These resources will guide and support you in your quest for equity.

Racism, in its many forms, did not emerge overnight or in the past week. It has matured for hundreds of years. Therefore, it will take time and deliberate effort to confront. It will require intentional goal setting, data-informed decision making, and anti-racist action, to truly achieve our goal of inclusive excellence. 

Sincerely,

Nefertiti A. Walker, Ph.D.
Interim Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Chief Diversity Officer 
Driving Change and Reform Needed
Dear Faculty, Staff and Students:

Over the course of the past seven years, together our campus community has faced and overcome many difficult challenges. As we continue to grapple with COVID-19 and its harsh economic consequences, recent national events have revealed some ugly and enduring inequities in American society, sparking anxiety, upset and outrage. In a period of American history unclear and confused in direction and purpose, one thing is abundantly clear. We cannot solve problems we do not acknowledge. The pain and loss of this pandemic have not been evenly distributed in Memphis, in Tennessee, nor across the United States. The most vulnerable among us carry the majority of that burden. This pandemic has revealed decades-long and enduring economic and health-care inequities that cut along racial lines and are at the foundation of that vulnerability. That pain has only been magnified by recent hate-filled violence against African-American men.

As an institution of higher education in one of the most diverse communities in America, our University is committed to being part of the solution. We are a place of hope, healing and healthy debate. We have an identified set of core values that embrace fairness, equity and justice, and we are committed to living those on a daily basis, particularly when they are most needed. It is clear that Memphis needs us, and we are here to help. I will be reaching out to our campus to assist in facilitating the change and reform needed. I am proud to be a Memphian, and a part of a community that works together. Our University is committed to being a part of the solution and helping drive the change and reform needed.  

Regards, 

M. David Rudd, Ph.D., ABPP
President, University of Memphis
Distinguished University Professor of Psychology

Admissions

Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour
Academics

Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware
Athletics

gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media
Research

Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research
Support UofM

Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Administrative Support

President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology
Services
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation
UofM Global Explore Lambuth Campus
Follow UofM Online

Instagram
Facebook
twitter
Youtube
Linkedn
TNeCampus.info
Tennessee Transfer Pathway
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis
Important Notice
 Last Updated: 6/1/20
The University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000
The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.
We need to bring about change
May 29, 2020
I have watched and read in horror reports of the death of George Floyd in Minnesota. Many members of the University of Michigan community have reached out to me to express their heartache and anger that another unarmed African American has been killed by police, who have violated their duty to protect and serve.

I want to thank those of you who have shared your personal feelings on this tragedy. I know that your pain is very real and profound. Many members of our community are experiencing this tragedy in ways that are inseparable from their race and ethnicity – and in ways that I will never be able to fully and personally realize. For instance, our Chief Diversity Officer Robert Sellers has very poignantly written about his experiences today.

I condemn the actions that caused the tragic deaths of George Floyd, of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and of Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. There are far, far too many more examples of racism and violence against people of color from all across our nation, including in our surrounding community.

The reality and scope of this problem are pervasive. A 2018 study whose authors included U-M Institute for Social Research fellow Michael Esposito found that "the risk of being killed by police, relative to White men, is between 3.2 and 3.5 times higher for Black men." Thanks to U-M Political Science Prof. Christian Davenport, we know that the exercising of fundamental rights is treated differently, as "African American protest events are more likely to draw police presence, even when we control for the measures of behavioral threat."

At U-M, we must use our power to address major societal problems – especially those that diminish our society so tragically. This is clear in our mission.

Our mission is also why our work to enhance diversity, equity and inclusion must continue. The University of Michigan has a critical role to play and obligation to lead the kind of changes in our society that we all want to see. I know that our Division of Public Safety and Security is committed to being a continuing partner in this ongoing work. DEI will continue as a major focus of the institution throughout my presidency, beyond our initial five-year Strategic Plan. We must utilize our scholarship, the education and the engagement of our talented faculty, students, and staff to bring about change not only within the university, but also in our broader society. Our collective future depends on it.

During this difficult time, I urge anyone who needs support to access our university's resources.

Students on all three campuses can receive support through CAPS, the university's counseling and psychological services. All faculty and staff in Ann Arbor, Dearborn and Flint can access services through the Faculty and Staff Counseling and Consultation Office. Michigan Medicine faculty and staff can access resources through Office of Counseling and Workplace Resilience.
Skip to navigationSkip to content
Committees
Chancellor Appearance Request
Contact
Office of the Chancellor
University of Missouri

About Planning Inside Mizzou Remarks & Presentations Distinguished Leaders Lecture
June 4, 2020: Tigers leading change
Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Alumni,

Over the last several days, we have seen an outpouring of support for those who have faced racism, both in our community and throughout the country.

University leaders and I have sent notes in recent days voicing our sorrow over the recent injustices and tragic deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor. We have vowed to do more as we have met with numerous black students, staff and faculty who have described the immense toll that systemic discrimination and racism has taken on their confidence in justice, on their mental health and on their hope that true change will ever happen.

We have been watching closely the social media thread #BlackatMizzou on Twitter and Instagram since it began earlier this week and are listening to powerful testimonies from our previous and current students featured there. I can tell you my heart has been rocked by this experience as have many others, and those who shared these posts should know their experiences are valued and have not been ignored.

Each tweet is a sobering reminder of the ugliness many of you have faced. I have been discussing these comments with our deans, faculty and university leaders, and we are learning from the common themes shared while also looking into some specific cases mentioned. These stories of name calling, racist assumptions and lack of response to injustice illustrate to me that our work is far from done related to inclusion, diversity and equity. I wish I could have been there each time these incidents occurred to call out the perpetrators, to hold them accountable and to support those who’ve been affected. But, that’s not possible. So, I call upon each one of us to take the stand to confront discrimination when it happens and to provide care and compassion to those who have suffered from it.

Mizzou continues to be committed to creating an inclusive community where everyone can live, learn and work in an environment that supports and celebrates each individual. I am grateful to our many students, faculty and staff who have worked tirelessly for change at Mizzou. I assure you that we will not stop pressing, and we will strive to spread the responsibility from those who have shouldered the brunt of the work to the larger community. Over the last several years we have done a lot of planning and created some progress and action. We all must do more.

Our community must address this important work together. Some are asking for details of our progress in recent years. To that end, we are organizing community conversations soon to discuss what we have been doing and how we can build on that foundation for a better Mizzou. We will share details in the coming weeks.

On behalf of the faculty, department chairs, deans, provost and the staff, I confirm that we will take important positive actions.

We know our Tiger family will lead change.

Mun Y. Choi, Ph.D.

UM System President and interim MU Chancellor

University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211
573-882-2121

© 2020 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution.

Skip to navigationSkip to content
Committees
Chancellor Appearance Request
Contact
Office of the Chancellor
University of Missouri

About Planning Inside Mizzou Remarks & Presentations Distinguished Leaders Lecture
June 4, 2020: Tigers leading change
Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Alumni,

Over the last several days, we have seen an outpouring of support for those who have faced racism, both in our community and throughout the country.

University leaders and I have sent notes in recent days voicing our sorrow over the recent injustices and tragic deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor. We have vowed to do more as we have met with numerous black students, staff and faculty who have described the immense toll that systemic discrimination and racism has taken on their confidence in justice, on their mental health and on their hope that true change will ever happen.

We have been watching closely the social media thread #BlackatMizzou on Twitter and Instagram since it began earlier this week and are listening to powerful testimonies from our previous and current students featured there. I can tell you my heart has been rocked by this experience as have many others, and those who shared these posts should know their experiences are valued and have not been ignored.

Each tweet is a sobering reminder of the ugliness many of you have faced. I have been discussing these comments with our deans, faculty and university leaders, and we are learning from the common themes shared while also looking into some specific cases mentioned. These stories of name calling, racist assumptions and lack of response to injustice illustrate to me that our work is far from done related to inclusion, diversity and equity. I wish I could have been there each time these incidents occurred to call out the perpetrators, to hold them accountable and to support those who’ve been affected. But, that’s not possible. So, I call upon each one of us to take the stand to confront discrimination when it happens and to provide care and compassion to those who have suffered from it.

Mizzou continues to be committed to creating an inclusive community where everyone can live, learn and work in an environment that supports and celebrates each individual. I am grateful to our many students, faculty and staff who have worked tirelessly for change at Mizzou. I assure you that we will not stop pressing, and we will strive to spread the responsibility from those who have shouldered the brunt of the work to the larger community. Over the last several years we have done a lot of planning and created some progress and action. We all must do more.

Our community must address this important work together. Some are asking for details of our progress in recent years. To that end, we are organizing community conversations soon to discuss what we have been doing and how we can build on that foundation for a better Mizzou. We will share details in the coming weeks.

On behalf of the faculty, department chairs, deans, provost and the staff, I confirm that we will take important positive actions.

We know our Tiger family will lead change.

Mun Y. Choi, Ph.D.

UM System President and interim MU Chancellor

University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211
573-882-2121

© 2020 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution.

Chancellor Green: 'Racism in any form is wrong and has no place in our lives'
Nebraska students hand out "Hate Will Never Win" T-shirts in the Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center before a campus rally in February 2018.
Craig Chandler | University Communication
Nebraska students hand out "Hate Will Never Win" T-shirts in the Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center before a campus rally in February 2018
Editor's Note — Chancellor Ronnie Green was among higher education leaders who responded to the national protests spurred by the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. The chancellor's message, which is below, was released May 30 via his Twitter account to connect immediately with students, faculty, staff and the broader community.

Chancellor Ronnie Green delivers his third State of the University address on Jan. 15. The speech examined the university's 150-year history and charted a course to 2025 and beyond.
Craig Chandler | University Communication
Chancellor Ronnie Green
Jane and I are sickened by the horrific injustice in Minneapolis, and the other forms of injustice that we know we don't see first-hand. Our hearts ache for the senseless loss of George Floyd and his family — and too many others.

Racism in any form is wrong and has no place in our lives, our communities, or institutions. Yet it remains.

Those of us entrusted to leading institutions must stay committed to truly listening, truly learning and to understanding our own bias. We need to encourage honest conversations, big and small, that can help bridge this divide and address deeply embedded histories of exclusion.

I hope and continue to believe that higher education, particularly institutions focused on access, can play a positive role in these conversations.

Review the chancellor's message and responses it received on Twitter.
A message of solidarity from UNLV President Marta Meana
MAY. 31, 2020
Dear colleagues and students,

It is with a heavy heart that I reach out to you in light of the appalling death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis Police. This is just the last in a far too long list of similar atrocities and there is only so much we can bear.

UNLV stands in solidarity with our African American faculty, staff, and students in denouncing this heinous act, in expecting accountability, and in demanding systemic change. The distress that this has caused in our community runs wide and deep. Racism is a far greater long-term threat to this country of ours than any virus. We need to confront it head on and together.

Universities have a responsibility to be beacons in the journey out of this unacceptable state of affairs. Let us double down on our efforts. We need to do this for each other. We need to do this for ourselves.

With sadness and hope,

Marta Meana, Ph.D.
UNLV President
I can’t breathe—again

As we gathered our thoughts at having to address, once again, the reality of the brutal death of an unarmed black man, George Floyd, we must categorically condemn the racism, abuse of power and brutality that led to his death. Mr. Floyd, who pleaded repeatedly for his life—I can’t breathe—eerily evocative of the equally violent death of Eric Garner and so many other black lives, is yet another deeply troubling lost life that ought to serve as a day of reckoning for all of us. As a nation, not only have we not resolved the historically deep wounds of structural racism, inequality, injustice and violence in our country, but those divisions, dramatically intensified in recent times, significantly challenge our democracy. We know from extensive evidence that hate and racial violence have increased to frightening levels in recent years. Let us also bear witness to the fact that in a few months we will be marking the one year anniversary of the El Paso mass killings, one of the deadliest anti-Latino and anti-emigrant hate crimes of recent years; a year ago, also, the shooting in the Poway synagogue took place; increasing attacks on mosques, and many others. These sobering realities must continue guiding our educational mandate on equity and inclusion through meaningful collaborations and much needed healing. Our deepest sense of solidarity to the family of Mr. George Floyd. Our particular support goes out to our Black students, faculty and staff in these somber moments.

Sincerely,

Marc A. Johnson
President
and
Eloisa Gordon-Mora
University Diversity and Inclusion Officer
President, Provost call for focus on core values in wake of George Floyd's death Minneapolis
June 1, 2020

Dear UNH Community,

Like virtually all Americans, we reacted with horror at the recent death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. This was particularly painful coming on the heels of the shooting of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. While the circumstances of these deaths were different, they all underscore the risks to black people interacting with police or simply going about their daily lives (as was demonstrated vividly by what happened to Christian Cooper in New York City). It is beyond belief that more than 50 years after the passage of the Civil Rights Act, nearly 30 years after Rodney King’s beating, six years after the shooting of Michael Brown and the choking death of Eric Garner, tragedies like this continue to occur. It is clear that, as former President Obama said in a recent statement, "If we want our children to grow up in a nation that lives up to its highest ideals, we can and must do better." Our hearts go out to our African American students, faculty, staff and alumni who are particularly affected by these events.

What is the responsibility of a public university like the University of New Hampshire in this situation? We have an obligation to fight ignorance, intolerance and bias, and to teach equality, respect and kindness—these are core values at UNH . The university is where we tackle societal challenges and work together to find solutions. This is founded on our mission to support the bedrock American principle that we are all created equal, and that all of us, regardless of any differences, should enjoy equal rights, opportunities and freedoms. It is fair to say that this passion for freedom is particularly acute in New Hampshire. We must ensure that our students and the whole UNH community deeply understand this shared commitment to our fellow citizens, to better understand when it has been violated. Our recent climate survey revealed that we have our own work to do in this area, which we will continue to do.

We cannot remain silent in the face of the trauma that these events inflict on marginalized communities across the country. We are united in our rejection of hate and intolerance, and call upon all in our community to support each other and those who are surely feeling the weight of these events. We all must renew our commitment to providing a safe and inclusive environment for everyone at UNH, including in interactions with UNH and Durham police. UNH Police Chief Paul Dean has worked extensively to build strong positive relationships with underrepresented students and has provided direction and training to his officers to do the same. Durham Police Chief Dave Kurz has done this as well.

As a research university, we also have the responsibility to address significant national issues. We will conduct a review of our research portfolio and look for opportunities to stimulate and support research on this important national problem. We hope that research can help us to identify practical steps that can be taken to protect the well-being and safety of all Americans while also improving our own racial understanding.

In the coming weeks, we will be meeting with and creating opportunities for faculty, staff and students to come together and share their input and guidance on responding to this challenge. Even in the face of the pandemic and the need to work and learn remotely, we must not lose sight of the importance of all aspects of our mission. In the aftermath of experiencing or witnessing trauma, it is normal to experience a range of feelings and emotions, such as shock, fear, sadness, anger, helplessness or guilt. For those members of our community who are feeling the trauma of this most acutely, we want to remind you that services continue to be available including: Psychological and Counseling Services (PACS); the Beauregard Center (formerly OMSA); Health and Wellness; and the Office of Community Equity and Diversity.

This is in so many ways a challenging time in America, but we as a people have risen to challenges before, and we will find ways to meet this one. We will be in touch with more detail on opportunities for education, research and conversation soon. In the meantime, our wish for all of you is health and safety.

James W. Dean, Jr.
President

Wayne Jones
Vice President and Provost
Leaders at The University of New Mexico have issued strong statements
condemning the brutal killing of George Floyd by police officers in Minnesota
on Memorial Day and the actions of those seeking to prompt further violence at
ensuing protests.
"Watching what is happening across our nation, I join the many voices who are
outraged and condemn not only the actions of the officers who killed George
Floyd, but police brutality against any and all communities of color," said UNM
President Garnett S. Stokes.
Following reports that extremist groups were using civil protests against police
brutality to further elicit violence, President Stokes stated that "peaceful protest
is a healthy way for people to express the hurt, fear and anger these types of
actions incite." She went on to say, "It is abhorrent that white nationalist groups
are taking cover behind legitimate national protests concerning George Floyd and
police brutality to provoke violence against black businesses and society at large."
UNM Police Chief Kevin McCabe issued the
following statement:
"What transpired in Minneapolis this past Memorial Day was appalling and
disgusting – in my opinion, this does not represent American law enforcement and
those who committed this heinous act or stood by and did nothing to intervene
lack the humanity, integrity, and honor to wear the badge of a police officer.
Their senseless actions have stained every professional law enforcement officer
who swore an oath to protect and defend the communities they serve but it is
also a clear call for all of us to stand against this type of abuse of power.
As a police chief, to see this type of brutality makes me sick but I am confident
that justice will prevail in this case. I, along with every member of The University
of New Mexico Police Department, not only strive to do our very best every day
to protect and serve those within our community but also be examples of police
officers that our community expects and deserves."
May 30, 2020
ALL UNIVERSITY MESSAGE
Message from campus leaders on events in Minneapolis
Carolina is committed to fostering an environment whereby the personal rights, lives and dignity of every member of our community matters.

Posted by University Communications, Saturday, May 30th, 2020
Bell Tower
The UNC Bell Tower on the campus of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill October 6, 2016. (Photo by Jon Gardiner/UNC-Chapel Hill)
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Pinterest
Share via Email
Print Friendly
Like so many of you, we have seen the recent events in Minneapolis where George Floyd, an unarmed Black man, died while in the custody of police officers. We denounce the actions of the police officers and support the decision to hold those responsible accountable.

This incident comes on the heels of similar acts of violence against Black people across the country. As we struggle to comprehend these events, we share your sadness, grief and frustration, and recognize the pain the recurrence of such senseless acts of violence and racism causes for so many members of our community. We add our voices to those calling for transparency and accountability.  

We are committed to fostering an environment whereby the personal rights, lives and dignity of every member of our university community matters. The events of this week underscore the important work of our Campus Safety Commission,and we are grateful for their continued efforts and collaborations with campus leadership.   

As we build our community together, even while many of us are apart, we hope that we all take some time to check in on each other. Next week, the University Office for Diversity and Inclusion, which seeks to unite our Carolina community and foster a sense of belonging and safety for all, will offer a space on its website for #YourVoiceMatters, where you may share your thoughts, perspectives and feelings anonymously. We hope you will participate.  

We recognize the stress these events cause members of our community, especially the Black community, and encourage anyone needing help to utilize the following  available resources. For students, you can contact the Office of the Dean of Students or Counseling and Psychological Services.  The Employee Assistance Program is available for faculty and staff.  

In solidarity and with unwavering resolve, 

Kevin M. Guskiewicz
Chancellor  

Robert A. Blouin
Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost 

Sibby Anderson Thompkins 
Special Assistant to the Chancellor and Provost
Interim Chief Diversity Officer 

George Battle
Vice Chancellor for Institutional Integrity and Risk Management 

David Perry
Associate Vice Chancellor and Chief of UNC Police 
Saturday, May 30, 2020
Dear Niner Nation,

Like so many of you and others around the nation, I was heartbroken by George Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on Monday night and the horrifying video of his final moments. The recent killings of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery are further examples of the systemic racial injustice that continues to plague our country.

I want to acknowledge the pain, trauma, and frustration that many of our students, faculty, and staff are feeling. These events have a powerful and personal impact on members of our community. Last night in Charlotte, we witnessed the community's unrest in response to the death of George Floyd as many people organized in protest of the ongoing racism against the Black community. 

I join with others to ask: What can I do? What can we do as a University that is committed to creating an equitable and safe environment for our students, faculty, and staff in one of the most diverse and vibrant urban cities in America?

As a community of educators and scholars, we hold a special responsibility to raise our voices to condemn the violence against Black people, other people of color, and other historically marginalized identities. It is up to us to lead, modeling civility, respect, and holding true to the values of diversity and inclusion that ensure all members of our community will thrive. At UNC Charlotte, I want us to question why incidents such as these occur, and what role we can play in creating an equitable and just world. We cannot accept apathy or indifference or silence; otherwise, we allow hatred, prejudice, and intolerance to grow.

One of the many special qualities of Niner Nation is the rich diversity of our community, feedback we consistently hear from students about why they love this University. For our African-American students, faculty, and staff, know that your Niner Nation family is here to support you. We always want to ensure that everyone feels welcome on campus, and that we are consistently providing a safe and inclusive environment.

If you need support during this time, please do not hesitate to reach out to the resources available to you. 

Counseling services are available to faculty and staff through the Employee Assistance Program and to students through the Christine F. Price Center for Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). These services will continue throughout the summer. Our Office of Identity, Equity and Engagement staff members are also available to support members of our community.  

The Counseling and Psychological Services Center is hosting a student-centered Healing and Empowerment Gathering on WebEx to develop self-care, coping strategies, and connection for Black students who have been impacted by racial injustice from 2 p.m. - 3:30 p.m., Thursday, June 4. You may register here. 

Unfortunately, as we know all too well, racism and bigotry will not end overnight. But we will never create a community and world where everyone is equally valued and protected unless we speak out, show up, and advocate for the rights of all.

Sincerely,

Chancellor Philip L. Dubois
Philip L. Dubois
Chancellor
We Must Stand Together – An Official Notice from the President
Monday, June 1, 2020

Dear UNT faculty and staff,

We are all deeply disturbed and saddened by the tragic events that led to the murder of George Floyd. Once again, we ask why an unarmed black man was killed by a police officer while colleagues looked on without intervening. People of color and white allies everywhere in our country have shown their shock and outrage through protests, and the collective rage people feel has led to more violent actions while we wait for answers. But no answers have been given. 

Thoughtful people everywhere want to see justice and racial equity, and we all hope and pray for an end to the bitter institutional racism to which we all bear witness. While there have been cries of condemnation for these horrific events, there has not been a cohesive national dialogue, and I fear the violent reactions we see are creating yet deeper divides. 

For some of our community members, these events feel all too familiar and there is concern that this could happen to them. Here in Denton, and at UNT, we are not immune to the challenges that the Black Community and law enforcement are facing. A former Black student was stopped at night last week by our campus police for not having a safety light on his bike. After our police confirmed that he had an outstanding warrant, this young man attempted to flee and was arrested after a brief struggle. This is an all too common scene in modern America and calls for all of us to do better as we negotiate the nexus of law enforcement and fear. 

In the fog of peaceful protests and with cities in flames, most of us are isolated from our normal campus connections and, lacking normal dialogue, we respond by listening to emotionally charged and often inaccurate social media. We take sides, and it becomes so easy to "like"or comment in ways that dehumanize those whose views don't match our own.

Before the COVID-19 crisis, we started to take a harder look at our culture, and the impact of discrimination and racism on our campus. That dialogue, and the healthy response to becoming a more intentionally inclusive campus, largely stopped as we took on yet another crisis. Today, I am calling on everyone in our community to show our caring and compassionate values. It is a time to come together – to listen – and to have the difficult and uncomfortable conversations we need to become the inclusive and caring community we aspire to be.

This week, I am inviting our community to rekindle these discussions. Our university will host two Black Lives Matter President's Virtual Town Halls with the first one set for students from 2 to 3:30 p.m. Friday, June 5. The second one is for faculty and staff and will be hosted from 2 to 3:30 p.m. Monday, June 8. The discussions will be framed around the three questions: How are we feeling? How does this relate to my experience at UNT? How can we move forward? Community members can ask questions during the event or send me questions in advance to untpresident@unt.edu.

As a higher education community, we want peace and racial justice as we continue honestly reckoning with our past. I hope you will join me and other campus leaders in this critical conversation that will help us return to campus as a stronger, more united community that celebrates our diversity, caring nature and commitment to a community where everyone feels equally valued.

Respectfully,

Neal Smatresk
UNT President
George Floyd’s tragic death cries out for justice and a recommitment to fight racism. Recalling the image of Father Hesburgh and Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. locked hand-in-hand in 1964, we pray, on this Feast of Pentecost: Come, Holy Spirit, inspire us to work for justice, solidarity and a healing of divisions." 
May 31, 2020

Ninety-nine years ago today, blood began to flow down Black Wall Street and the Tulsa Race Massacre ensued, marking one of the most tragic events in the history of our state and nation. And now, nearly a century later, we continue to live with the same violence and vitriol. The recent killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and George Floyd are stark examples of black lives lost due to senseless brutality. We know that racism in all of its forms, explicit and implicit, is never more unfair than when it leads to the needless loss of a life. To become the country we know we can be, we must honestly address the issues that underlie these societal divisions and make real, systemic change. I urge our entire OU family to lend support, advocacy, and love to the marginalized black members of our own community. Together, we are stronger.

Joseph Harroz, Jr.
President  
Recognize today’s challenges; provide comfort and care
June 1, 2020

Colleagues, 

If anything is certain in these very uncertain times, it’s that racism exists in our society.

So what does one say when it seems like there might not be anything one can do to immediately fix things? Under normal circumstances, we might hold one another or offer words of encouragement, anything to show that we care. We would be present with one another. Yet, we are denied that at this moment because of the COVID-19 pandemic.

A collection of recent events – from the newly launched investigation into the slaying of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia to the black birdwatcher in Central Park who was threatened by a white woman to the brutal killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis – have left many of us feeling hopeless, scared, and exhausted.

My request here is that we all, faculty in particular, provide extra flexibility for members of the community who are at their limit because of the ongoing inequities involving so many others. That these challenges around race are occurring in the face of the challenges we are seeing from the pandemic makes it even worse. It is OK to acknowledge our exhaustion, as the coronavirus has pushed our community hard, and we have risen to the occasion beyond what nearly anyone could have imagined.

We are exhausted, but we are resilient, and we are getting there. But the circumstances of the last few days, as well as the general climate around race and justice over the preceding years, decades, and indeed centuries brings into bright relief the continuing inequities within our society. The civil unrest around the George Floyd killing has ripped open the wounds and threatened to grind our exhaustion into despair.

What words can I offer to ameliorate these feelings? None that can authentically speak to the true feelings that only the lived experience of the individual can truly validate. Our faculty, staff, and students of color – particularly our black students – are feeling scared, angry, and they are questioning what the world is doing to address injustice.

Not enough. Never enough.

We each sit with our own thoughts at this moment. We cannot hug each other when we need it most. But what we can do is acknowledge that we are going through this together, and that we must support each other as we can. But we must also recognize that different members of the community will be suffering more than others, and we must recognize that that suffering is born from each individual’s experience and life path.

So, as we bring this term to a close, I request that all faculty recognize that students may be going through a particularly tough period that makes it difficult for them to focus on their schoolwork. As you know, we have already instituted a flexible pass/no-pass structure for all students in all courses. This should provide students with flexibility and solace as they finish out their work. However, I also ask all faculty to be very open if a student requests that they might need a little more time to finish off an assignment that is due this week and to do so without question.

Let’s also make sure we accommodate and care for each other. Our work this spring has required an unprecedented level of flexibility and generosity of spirit. I am very grateful for everyone’s hard work in making that generosity a hallmark of the UO community. Indeed, I sense that we have always felt it as one of our core principles. But now we can be assured that it is a rock upon which we will continue to mount a response to each and every challenge—and a rapidly changing world—together.

Sincerely,

Patrick Phillips
Provost and Senior Vice President
Statement on the death of George Floyd
May 30, 2020
Amy Gutmann, President

Once again our nation mourns. The tragic and senseless death of George Floyd is a vivid reminder of the inequalities and unacceptable indignities that so many of our citizens constantly endure. The events in Minneapolis this week should lead everyone to recognize how much more work our society must do to realize liberty and justice for all. As a nation we have much work to do.

While the entire Penn community weeps, and our hearts are filled with sadness for this senseless loss of life, we should remember the importance of Penn’s commitment to doing our part to create a more inclusive and mutually respectful environment and society free from discrimination and deprivation.

I especially want Penn’s African American students, faculty, and staff to know how much they and their contributions to our community are treasured. It is particularly important at this difficult time that Penn’s students of color know their University supports them, which we unequivocally do. While we may be apart physically at this point in time, we are truly together in spirit.

We all long for the day when we never again bear witness to such a needless death. Our prayers are for the Floyd family, and for a healing of our nation’s soul. Let all of us in the Penn community use this moment to recommit, from the deepest corners of our hearts, to creating a living and learning environment that is truly safe and welcoming for all.
Statement on Racial Injustice and the Death of George Floyd
June 2, 2020
Dear Members of the University Community: 

It is impossible to forget the image of George Floyd, gasping for air as a police officer who is sworn to protect and defend calmly kneels on his neck until he dies. It is both a shocking scene of violence that should never happen and a potent reminder that it continues to happen all the time.

The painful truth is that persistent and systemic racism continues to fuel a deep injustice toward African Americans. The familiarity of this tragedy has ignited widespread protests and demonstrations—not only across our country, but across the globe.

We are outraged because it is outrageous. How many times must we witness these blatant examples of injustice, hatred, brutality and discrimination before we resolve to change things?  

This is a time for demonstrating solidarity with our African American community. To the University of Pittsburgh’s African American students, faculty, staff and alumni: We stand with you in demanding better and are committed to working with you to make meaningful changes.    

Unfortunately, grief and anger are emotions too easily exploited. Some are happy to create confusion, sow conflict and incite violence and ultimately erode our fundamental rights to peaceably gather and demand real change. This, too, is a painfully familiar pattern. Against a rising toll of injury, death and recrimination, we stand to lose our solidarity—replacing it with ever-deepening divisions.  

Do we have to go down this road?

In this moment of raw grief and anger, we must plot a path forward. We must find ways to build bridges, listen and empathize—even when it is uncomfortable. And we must demand better of our leaders, holding them accountable by voting and pushing to reform the laws and institutions of our democracy. Working together, we have enormous power to realize change.

But this is also a time to turn the lens inward and consider our institution’s own role in perpetuating unfair structures and systems. A university is not an ivory tower but an extension of society—a place dedicated to advancing knowledge for everyone’s gain. Racism degrades our pursuit of true equality, liberty and justice, and it undermines our ability to create opportunity through teaching, research and service. Our university must become a better, more equitable place, and we can do more.

These local efforts may seem like small acts in the face of a national civil crisis, but they can catalyze powerful change. The University of Pittsburgh is a longstanding leader in our region. Yet, for all of our remarkable accomplishments, African Americans living within the Cathedral of Learning’s shadow are still confronting an alarming opportunity gap. We can expand our efforts to translate our work into practice and spur a local renaissance in our surrounding neighborhoods and communities.

Reshaping our university to be more diverse, inclusive and just—while also expanding our reach and impact in promoting social justice—is a significant effort, and we will need to resource and sustain this transformation over time. Because of this, I am putting our nearly complete strategic planning process—which aims to chart Pitt’s course over the next five years—on hold. This pause will give us time to incorporate specific strategies to strengthen our commitments to racial equity and justice. I will need your help in identifying the most promising initiatives in this final plan, and I hope you will participate.  

To jumpstart this work, we are scheduling and planning a number of opportunities to convene virtually so that we can share ideas, experiences and expertise related to eliminating racism and injustice near and far. In the days ahead, we must continue to stand in solidarity as we work to forge a better, more equitable future for all.  

Respectfully, 

Patrick Gallagher
Black Lives Matter: A GSO Perspective
Aerial view of the URI Narragansett Bay Campus
June 4, 2020
A statement from URI Graduate School of Oceanography Dean Bruce Corliss.
I am writing to follow up my statement last week in On the Waterfront should you not have had the opportunity to read it. The senseless death of George Floyd has created despair and anger across the country and, as the URI Senior Leadership Team stated in a recent email, is a reminder of the oppression and injustice still too prevalent in our society. The Graduate School of Oceanography and the University of Rhode Island are committed to a more just and equitable society and university community. I write to re-confirm that commitment to promote and respect diversity and justice for all within our campus and within the nation as we struggle to address systemic problems within our society and across the country.

The death of George Floyd and long-standing anti-black racism, together with a lack of progress to address the roots of these crimes, have led to frustration and anger generated by police brutality, racial injustice and a culture among some that condones violence. This anger is also based on societal and structural racism that has pervaded the fabric of America. Societal racism includes inequalities in income/wealth distribution, availability of health care and affordable health insurance, and educational opportunities, and is perpetuated not only by individuals and institutions, but by lawmakers passing legislation that precludes or limits opportunity to minority communities and, in particular, to Black Americans. Politics matter. These societal and financial inequities have existed for a very long time, and the lack of progress to address these inequities is at the core of the problem that the country faces today.

GSO has actively made efforts to attract minority faculty and students in general, and specifically African Americans, to join GSO and will continue to do so. In addition, professional societies have fostered and reinforced the need to increase underrepresented minorities in the sciences, and in particular Black Americans. But, clearly we as an institution and a discipline must hold ourselves accountable and do better. It is time to reflect upon and then redouble our efforts to ensure that current and prospective faculty, students and staff of color feel that they belong and are supported.

The GSO faculty voted last year to remove the GRE test requirement in graduate applications, as this has been shown to be a bias against minority students. This year a NOAA proposal was submitted to recruit and provide support to summer students from the University of Maryland Eastern Shore, a Historically Black College and University (HBCU), as part of our CINAR effort, an effort that follows a commitment we made last year when we submitted the Cooperative Institute proposal. We also reached out this year to another HBCU institution, Elizabeth City University in North Carolina, to inquire about their possible interest in joining the East Coast Oceanographic Consortium with the goal of developing a pipeline of underrepresented students at GSO and other ECOC institutions. In an effort to increase the diversity of future oceanographers, GSO’s NSF-REU program (SURFO) is committed to recruiting students from underrepresented groups. Recruiting at HBCUs and Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs), attending conferences focused on scientists from underrepresented groups (SACNAS) and forming a partnership with the Puerto Rico Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation have begun to effect change. Last summer, half of our SURFO student participants were from underrepresented groups. We look forward to next week when a new cohort begins, with almost half the young scientists from underrepresented groups. 

These efforts do not address the inequities and injustices that presently exist with structural racism in America, but are examples of our commitment to recruit and welcome Black students, students of color and other minorities to oceanography with the goal of promoting equity within the science community.

This is the time to address questions of inequity, justice and the rights of all individuals in our society. It is a time for reflection and for discussion, but it is also a time to develop and execute plans to address these issues. Recognizing that the scarcity of Black oceanographers is a result of an unjust K-12 educational system, a key goal of GSO’s outreach efforts is to prioritize access for underrepresented communities to ocean science. GSO will continue to spark partnerships with under-resourced schools throughout Rhode Island and minority serving institutions across the country. We are emboldened to strengthen these efforts.

As part of that effort, GSO will help make meaningful partnerships with minority serving institutions within the East Coast Oceanographic Consortium to develop opportunities for Black and minority students. This summer, we will also share on the GSO website opportunities for discussion on systemic racism offered by the URI’s Office of Community, Equity and Diversity.

There have been many thoughtful statements across the country that address recent disturbing racist acts and the need to confront racial injustice and the culture that fosters it. I would like to share one by Dr. Sudip S.Parikh, CEO of the AAAS, that is an insightful statement about the need to come together in the science community to address the challenges that we are all facing. 

GSO is committed to moving forward in a thoughtful and meaningful way in the days and years to come. Please reach out to me and other GSO leaders if you would like to express concerns or suggestions.

Sincerely,

Bruce H. Corliss
Dean, URI Graduate School of Oceanography
The University of Rochester
Search Rochester.edu
Office of the President
About Sarah Mangelsdorf Messages Contact Us Past Presidents Inauguration 
 BACK TO SARAH C. MANGELSDORF MESSAGES
Flying the University Flag at Half-staff to Honor George Floyd
JUNE 4, 2020
The past months have been challenging for all of us, and the last few weeks especially have laid bare the challenges that we as a society and as a University are facing with respect to the blight of systemic racism and racial injustice. The leadership of this institution is committed to candid conversations, to listening, and to real and effective action to address the concerns of our black students, faculty, staff, and alumni and their allies. And we recognize that this must be a shared commitment. We will be sending a broader message on this essential topic shortly.

Today, we are flying the University of Rochester flag on the Eastman Quadrangle and at the Medical Center at half-staff to commemorate today’s memorial service for George Floyd and as a step to demonstrating our public commitment to anti-racism in every area of this institution. We are all feeling the anguish of injustice today. I stand with you in sorrow and anger, and look forward to joining with you in doing the work that must be done.

Sincerely,

Sarah C. Mangelsdorf
President

FOR: StudentsParents & FamiliesFacultyStaffAlumniLocal Community
Text Only Contact Us Newscenter Calendar Futurity
River Campus (mailing address): 500 Joseph C. Wilson Blvd., Rochester, NY 14627

River Campus (GPS/maps): 252 Elmwood Ave., Rochester, NY

Medical Center: 601 Elmwood Ave., Rochester, NY 14642

Eastman School: 26 Gibbs St., Rochester, NY 14604

Maps & Directions

FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagramLinkedInTumblrFuturityMore social
EMERGENCY COPYRIGHT ACCESSIBILITY NONDISCRIMINATION & TITLE IX© University of Rochester 1996-2020
A MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT BOB CASLEN
May 31, 2020

With heavy hearts, we mourn the horrific killing of George Floyd at the hands of a police officer while three other officers stood by in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Our thoughts go out to Floyd's family and to the families of all those who have been the victims of violent murders fueled by racism and hatred in our country. These events are a stark reminder of the dark divisions that continue to run through our society, the legacy of a dark past that we have not yet fully reconciled. We must acknowledge these divisions and commit to becoming a more just and equitable society.

We stand in solidarity with the African American community, as these events have only compounded the sense of grief, fear, and loss brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. Here as well, we are reminded of the systemic biases that shape our realities. It is our collective responsibility to challenge these institutional inequities and to demand better for ourselves and for future generations.

As Gamecocks, let us be leaders in these efforts. Our Carolinian Creed calls on us to respect the dignity of all persons, to respect the rights and property of others, to discourage bigotry, while striving to learn from differences in people, ideas, and opinions. Violence and hateful rhetoric are not reflective of these values. If we are to begin the process of healing the wounds of racism, hate and bigotry that have brought us to this current tipping point, we must engage one another in thoughtful dialogue about our individual and collective experiences. We must do the work of educating ourselves about the harmful impact of racism and discrimination in all of its manifestations.

Anti-discrimination and anti-harassment training are currently provided to UofSC faculty and staff and required of all students who are new to the Columbia campus. And multiple units are engaged in advancing diversity and inclusion initiatives across our campus. However, given this pivotal moment in which we find ourselves, we will intensify these efforts to ensure that we are equipping our students, faculty and staff with the tools needed to effectively navigate the current tensions in our society. To this end, we are assembling a team to work on the implementation of a new diversity module that will be required of all UofSC freshmen as part of their orientation process beginning in the 2020-2021 academic year. And we will amplify the training available to all students, faculty and staff to ensure that we have the resources needed to foster a campus culture that is reflective of our Creed.

In his 1963 "Letter from a Birmingham Jail,"Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. acknowledged the "interrelatedness of all communities and states,"noting that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny."Let us turn our anger into action, demanding justice where there is injustice, peace where there is violence, and love where there is hate. Let the suffocation of this moment be the impetus for change.

Campus Resources:

To report incidents of bias or hate, submit a Bias and Hate Incident Form

UofSC Counseling & Psychiatry: 803-777-5223 

UofSC Police Department: 803-777-4215

 

Tracey L. Weldon
Interim Chief Diversity Officer, Office of the Provost
Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences

Bob Caslen
President                                                                               
Message from USF President Steven C. Currall
MAY 30, 2020UNIVERSITY NEWS
To Members of the USF Community:

I believe I speak for the entire University of South Florida community when I express our deep sadness over recent events in Minneapolis and around the country. The deaths of two black men, George Floyd in Minneapolis and Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, should prompt us to pause and think about how racism impacts all of our lives.

Although neither of those individuals were affiliated with the University of South Florida, events such as this have a powerful impact on people of every background and in every community.  The impact is magnified in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has so badly shaken us all.

As we work to help each other understand what has happened -- if we can ever truly understand -- I find myself reflecting on the Principles of Community we aspire to at USF;  to treat each other with respect and dignity, refrain from displays of inappropriate anger or intimidating conduct, shun epithets or abusive language, find effective means to disagree, and to persuade and to inform through dialogue.

For our students, faculty and staff, I want to remind them of the resources available through the university’s Office of Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the USF Counseling Center. I urge you to seek out their support.

I believe we must support and care for each other during times like these and not forget that each of us is empowered to stand up to injustice whenever and wherever it occurs.

Thank you.

Steve Currall

Steven C. Currall, Ph.D.
President and Professor
University of South Florida
Note to Community from President Folt
May 31, 2020

Dear Trojan Community,

I write today, hoping you and your families are well and safe, yet knowing that many of you are not; your hearts are aching, and you are searching for answers, actions, and hope. The horrific deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and so many others, together with the demonstrations and unrest sweeping our nation are tearing at us all.  

These violent acts come at a time when our world has already been profoundly disrupted by COVID-19. And many of those hit the hardest are people of color, particularly African Americans – the very same people in communities already burdened by a history of prejudice, poverty, and especially racism.  

Many of you have told me that you are feeling sad, angry, desperate and despairing as you face such grave injustices and the escalation of tensions, and you are trying to find a way forward.

It weighs heavily on all of us. But we are Trojans, united as a university dedicated to the fundamental principles of equality and inclusion, education, and discovery for the good of humanity. We can make a positive difference, as we have for more than 100 years.

I don’t have the answers today, but we will continue to seek them together. I know that we can effect change – in our community, our city, and our nation. Now, more than ever, we need to rely on each other and help each other and our neighbors through these times. We are a community strengthened by the diversity that you bring – we are the students who want to change the world, the faculty dedicated to inspiring young leaders, the staff who keep the university running, the healthcare workers on the front lines, the social workers, the business leaders, the community organizers, the creators, entrepreneurs, teachers, and scholars our nation needs, and so much more. We must be there to support our communities. And, we know we can.

This moment is our call to action. It will be challenging to confront directly issues like racism in our community, but we must. We have started discussions with our student, faculty, staff, and alumni organizations, our civic leaders and our neighbors in the community. We recognize the need for continued conversations around policing, and our chief of the USC Department of Public Safety will be partnering with our campus and broader community to find collective answers to persistent inequities. We will engage you to break down silos that separate us, encourage thoughtful debate, and protect the dignity of every individual in our community. Together, we will stand for justice and embrace a culture of respect for all.

With respect and admiration,

Carol L. Folt
President

Adobe PDF version
His Name is George Floyd
May 30, 2020
We will step forward and show the world what kindness, equity, and inclusion for all people can look like

George Floyd. His name is George Floyd and he should be alive today. Sadly, the list of black people in America subjected to violence is long and getting longer. We grieve for their moms, dads, spouses, sons, daughters, brothers, sisters, grandparents whose loss is unimaginable. We grieve for their friends and neighbors and their community. I condemn brutality in all its forms, but it is most egregious in the hands of those who have taken an oath to protect.

My heart aches for so many as senseless acts of racism and violence continue. The pain and fear are evident in the protests, media, and conversations. The pain and fear are real for so many members of our campus community. We should all be angry, and for many anger has been replaced with exhaustion.

We must do better. Vol is a Verb, and action is important. We will continue the hard work to create a campus where everyone matters and belongs. Where anyone can study, work, learn, teach, jog, and live their daily life without fear. Where education becomes the great equalizer for anyone who wants it. Creating an environment for all Vols to succeed is a responsibility we all share.

Many groups have been working for weeks on making our campus safe for the return of students in the fall—safe from COVID-19. Some ask how is that in 2020 we still face the need to make sure that students, faculty, and staff are safe from racism. Black friends and colleagues have expressed to me that they are tired of having this conversation only to have it followed by another disgusting display of racism. We all need to join together to carry the torch of safety, dignity, respect, and human rights for everyone. We will do both of these things—plan for a fall safe from the coronavirus, and also plan for a future at this university where everyone feels safe and respected, where we have achieved our goals of being a place where everyone matters and belongs.

I will be convening members of our campus—students, faculty, staff, UTPD—in a conversation about how we pull together, support one another, and create the campus we want to have. I will work in partnership with student, faculty, and staff representatives to listen, learn, and take action. At a time when we are separated by distance, it is more important than ever to be united in commitment and support for one another. Take time to check on your friends and colleagues who might be having a difficult time. They are in pain and they need to know we are here for them.

Volunteers step forward in leadership and service. We will step forward and show the world what kindness, equity, and inclusion for all people can look like.

Donde Plowman signature

 

 

Donde Plowman
Chancellor
Dear UTA Community,

I am writing with a shared sense of shock, fear, outrage and sadness as we reflect upon the senseless killing of George Floyd as well as recent incidents of hatred, inequality and ensuing violence. This touches me deeply as it brings back scarred memories of years of racism and bullying I endured during my youth simply because of my ethnicity. I am forever grateful to my adopted country that has allowed me to heal my wounds and pursue my dreams.

Now, more than ever, it is time that we renew our own commitment to and uphold the values set forth in UTA's Principles of Community. The basis for our UTA Community is mutual respect "…members of our community build trust by finding ways to communicate with one another respectfully. With civil discourse, our other principles will follow. Therefore, we will listen, not just to hear, but to try and understand."

Our nation and our society face tremendous challenges in overcoming racism, discrimination and injustice. As scholars and students, teachers and mentors, I believe each of us at UTA has our own role in making a difference, changing all that is broken and accentuating the good I personally have experienced.

As Dr. Martin Luther King stated, "One of the great liabilities of history is that all too many people fail to remain awake through great periods of social change…Today, our very survival depends on our ability to stay awake, to adjust to new ideas, to remain vigilant and to face the challenge of change."

Let us commit ourselves to act with fairness, justice and mutual respect for all.

Sincerely yours,

Teik C. Lim, Ph.D.

President ad interim

#UTAUnited
Turbulent and Difficult Times
June 1, 2020

Dear UT Community, 

This isn't the first letter I'd planned to write as interim President of The University of Texas at Austin. I had a series of welcome messages set to go out today. But they didn't anticipate or acknowledge the events of the past few days and the pain those events have caused for so many — so I had to start over. 

Today's transition comes during a turbulent and difficult time. We are experiencing widespread outrage, anger, sadness and reflection here in Austin, throughout Texas and across our country. The senseless killing of George Floyd and the ensuing protests have gripped the nation. As I watch these events unfold, I feel for those who are in pain and am acutely aware that we must continue our struggle for meaningful and enduring change to overcome acts of racism and violence that corrode our community.

These challenges come as we are already responding to the COVID-19 crisis, which has become so much more than a life-threatening disease. It has paused or disrupted many of the core elements of our daily lives, forcing students to adjust to learning remotely and a different market for internships and jobs; requiring faculty and staff members to work in new, less comfortable ways; threatening many individuals' ability to keep their jobs and earn a living; and impacting our health care and education systems.

As we navigate these difficult times, I am reminded of just how critical The University of Texas at Austin is for our community, state, nation and the entire world.

UT has always been a special place to me, as a student, faculty member and dean of the McCombs School of Business. Now more than ever, I see that the creation and dissemination of knowledge are the most effective antidotes for injustice, inequality and intolerance, and for the advancement and improvement of our society. And that's what we do at UT.

We say, "What starts here changes the world."Those starts and changes don't just happen. They are the result of actions — large and small, as individuals and in teams — by our students, faculty, staff and alumni.

Without question, 2020 has not been the year any of us wanted it to be. We have seen political dysfunction, a global pandemic, economic distress, racial tension — and it is only June 1. In facing these struggles and uncertainty, we need people who can think creatively, develop workable solutions and solve difficult problems. The University of Texas has always had a mandate to be a "university of the first class."Part of that mandate means that this university and the people of this community will take an active role in addressing the critical problems our society is facing.

As Longhorns, when we are tested, we don't shy away. When we are challenged, we don't fade into the background and shrink from our responsibility. We come together and draw upon the diverse range of talent, energy and passion that we have on the Forty Acres, to take on the most important and difficult issues of our time. I look forward to working with you to do that in the days and months ahead.

Sincerely yours,

Jay Hartzell
Interim President

The University of Texas at Dallas - Office of the President
May 31, 2020

Over the last few days, I have heard from concerned students and colleagues about the horrific footage of George Floyd’s killing in Minneapolis.

I have watched the outrage over this tragedy from cities around the country. I have seen the emotional outpouring as people demand change in our society, and I have personally felt great anguish watching a defenseless man die while begging for help from those who are sworn to protect us.

As one who believes in the American ideal, this week has been difficult to comprehend. I know that I am not alone in questioning how our society can move forward when too many people are denied their rights. And so terribly often, those treated the most violently have been black.

Change must occur, and each one of us must play a role in effecting this change.

As president of UT Dallas, I reinforce the values of community, diversity and tolerance we share on our campus. I stress the imperative that we must live these values daily, and I emphasize the resolve we must have to honor this commitment now and into the future.

We, at UT Dallas, recommit to providing a safe, welcoming environment to all people, regardless of race, religion, ethnic origin, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation.

Each one of us — staff, faculty and students — must take these principles into our core if we are to have any hope of effecting change in our society. I ask that we all recommit ourselves so that, as Comets, we live the values we hope become reality for all people across our nation.

Let UT Dallas be a beacon of decency to the rest of the nation.

Sincerely,

Richard C. Benson
President
Eugene McDermott Distinguished University Chair of Leadership


The University of Texas at Dallas
800 W. Campbell Rd, Richardson, Texas 75080-3021

View this in your browser.
Turbulent and Difficult Times
June 1, 2020

Dear UT Community, 

This isn't the first letter I'd planned to write as interim President of The University of Texas at Austin. I had a series of welcome messages set to go out today. But they didn't anticipate or acknowledge the events of the past few days and the pain those events have caused for so many — so I had to start over. 

Today's transition comes during a turbulent and difficult time. We are experiencing widespread outrage, anger, sadness and reflection here in Austin, throughout Texas and across our country. The senseless killing of George Floyd and the ensuing protests have gripped the nation. As I watch these events unfold, I feel for those who are in pain and am acutely aware that we must continue our struggle for meaningful and enduring change to overcome acts of racism and violence that corrode our community.

These challenges come as we are already responding to the COVID-19 crisis, which has become so much more than a life-threatening disease. It has paused or disrupted many of the core elements of our daily lives, forcing students to adjust to learning remotely and a different market for internships and jobs; requiring faculty and staff members to work in new, less comfortable ways; threatening many individuals' ability to keep their jobs and earn a living; and impacting our health care and education systems.

As we navigate these difficult times, I am reminded of just how critical The University of Texas at Austin is for our community, state, nation and the entire world.

UT has always been a special place to me, as a student, faculty member and dean of the McCombs School of Business. Now more than ever, I see that the creation and dissemination of knowledge are the most effective antidotes for injustice, inequality and intolerance, and for the advancement and improvement of our society. And that's what we do at UT.

We say, "What starts here changes the world."Those starts and changes don't just happen. They are the result of actions — large and small, as individuals and in teams — by our students, faculty, staff and alumni.

Without question, 2020 has not been the year any of us wanted it to be. We have seen political dysfunction, a global pandemic, economic distress, racial tension — and it is only June 1. In facing these struggles and uncertainty, we need people who can think creatively, develop workable solutions and solve difficult problems. The University of Texas has always had a mandate to be a "university of the first class."Part of that mandate means that this university and the people of this community will take an active role in addressing the critical problems our society is facing.

As Longhorns, when we are tested, we don't shy away. When we are challenged, we don't fade into the background and shrink from our responsibility. We come together and draw upon the diverse range of talent, energy and passion that we have on the Forty Acres, to take on the most important and difficult issues of our time. I look forward to working with you to do that in the days and months ahead.

Sincerely yours,

Jay Hartzell
Interim President
President Eighmy addresses UTSA on standing together for social justice
President Eighmy addresses UTSA on standing together for social justice
JUNE 2, 2020 — Editor’s note: The following message was sent via email today from President Taylor Eighmy to all students, faculty and staff:

The recent incidents of racism, violence and killing of Black citizens in our country are a stark reminder of how we must rid deeply rooted bigotry and injustices from our society. I am horrified by these senseless killings and—as I said in my statement over the weekend—I find myself feeling deeply frustrated by the lack of progress made by our country since civil rights activists fought for equal rights 56 years ago. The impact of COVID-19 on communities of color is yet another heart-wrenching example of the reality of ongoing national systemic inequities.

We cannot let the deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor go unnoticed or unaddressed. Nor can we ignore the countless other Black people and other people of color who have lost their lives to senseless acts of violence. We must call out and condemn these racist acts, stand together in the fight for justice, speak out and enact change. On behalf of UTSA’s entire leadership team I want to convey to Black students, faculty and staff in the Roadrunner community that we see you and we will continue to fight alongside you. Black Lives Matter.

I believe public research universities have a responsibility to be at the forefront of change for our country. I believe we can serve as models for diversity, equity and inclusion. I believe we are all born with the same potential—but not given the same opportunities. I believe education is a great equalizer and has the power to change lives and create a more just and equitable society. I believe we have an obligation to ensure that Black students and other underrepresented students feel welcome in our inclusive community, experience a powerful educational journey and graduate prepared to change the world.

We have our own work to do to be exemplary in building an environment of inclusive excellence on our campus. Much work has been done on this front in the past year and much more is planned, including upcoming training sessions in August on addressing racial bias, anti-racist efforts and microagressions. We recognize the need for continued conversations around policing, building on Fair and Impartial Policing training implemented by our UTSA PD last year. I hold myself—and UTSA’s entire leadership team—accountable for continuing to move beyond acknowledging the issues and to provide spaces for our community to fight for justice in effective ways.

Tomorrow’s community gathering, hosted by the Multicultural Student Center for Equity and Justice, is an opportunity to support our grieving and angry community. For any of you who may need additional support, please reach out:

For students, UTSA Counseling and Mental Health Services offers same-day or next-day phone and video counseling sessions.
For faculty and staff, counseling services are available through the Employee Assistance Program.
I encourage all of you—the entire Roadrunner community—to take time to process, take care of one another and take action to move our nation forward.


Diversity and Inclusion: Recognizing our Shortcomings, Working to Improve
Over the past few days, we were made aware of social media comments made by a few students that are racist, offensive and harmful to our community. We are appalled and disheartened that any member of the NC State community would choose to make such abhorrent statements.

To say the words and actions in those posts stand in complete opposition to NC State’s values is an understatement.

As a public institution, NC State is bound by privacy laws such that we cannot share information about individual students or the specifics of investigations. We know that many will not be satisfied with this response, but please know these incidents are being addressed.

At this challenging time across our nation, and in our own community, we want to be clear where NC State leadership stands: We stand against and condemn white supremacy, racial injustice and all forms of racism and discrimination. NC State’s Black students, faculty and staff deserve a campus culture where they feel safe, supported, respected and valued. We are committed to doing all we can to protect, promote and advance diversity, equity and inclusion at NC State.

These incidents remind us that we fall far short of where we aim to be. We need to do more and do better. As a Wolfpack, we must remain united and committed – every one of us must actively contribute to help ensure a more diverse and inclusive environment. And, we need to be innovative and try new ideas and approaches to embrace and advance diversity and inclusion.

We may not get it right every time, but we are committed to listening to the voices and lived experiences of those impacted and challenging ourselves to do the work necessary to build a more just and equitable NC State.

As one first step, in the coming academic year, we will require every student, faculty and staff member to complete diversity and inclusion learning modules. This will include every member of Cabinet as well as all of the deans, directors and department heads of the university.

As another step, we are assembling an interdisciplinary team to evaluate NC State’s policies, examine every opportunity to strengthen them against racism and discriminatory behavior, and modify, where allowed by law, to bolster our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion.

When students return in the fall, we commit to working with them to collaboratively review NC State’s Code of Student Conduct and examine opportunities for improving and strengthening the code, where allowed by law. We will also work with students to review, update and improve our university’s statement of values. When complete, we will expect every student at NC State to uphold these values that define the inclusive and supportive culture that we seek for our community.

Additionally, when students, faculty and staff return to campus, we want to move to a place of dialogue and partnership to have difficult but necessary conversations, better gauge what is needed, what is possible, and working together, what we’re going to do about it. We are working on a plan to facilitate those discussions.

These are not the last things we will do, and they are not nearly enough to overcome the many challenges related to actively addressing both the individual acts of racism and the system of racism to foster belonging for all. But they are a few next steps, and we are fully committed to doing more to keep moving forward.

We are a university that is about transforming lives and making the world a better place. This mission is more important today than ever before. We have much work yet to do, work that will require humility, empathy, resilience, hope and engagement. We remain committed to striving today and every day to ensure a university climate that embraces, values and advances a diverse, inclusive and supportive campus culture.

W. Randolph Woodson | Chancellor
Warwick Arden | Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost
Charles Maimone | Vice Chancellor for Finance and Administration
Brad Bohlander |Chief Communications Officer, Associate Vice Chancellor of University Communications
Boo Corrigan | Director of Athletics
Marc I. Hoit | Vice Chancellor for Information Technology
Kevin Howell | Vice Chancellor for External Affairs, Partnerships and Economic Development
Sheri L. Schwab | Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity
Brian Sischo | Vice Chancellor for University Advancement
P.J. Teal | Secretary of the University and Assistant to the Chancellor
Mladen Vouk | Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation
Marie Williams | Associate Vice Chancellor for Human Resources
Lisa Zapata | Interim Vice Chancellor for the Division of Academic and Student Affairs
Message from President Cockett
May 31, 2020

USU President Noelle Cockett

Full Size
Dear USU students, faculty and staff,

The tragic death of George Floyd in Minneapolis was extremely disturbing to watch. The national protests and unrest that have followed prompt me today to publicly reaffirm Utah State University’s and my own personal commitment to inclusion and respect in our Aggie family and in those communities we reach every day.

Clearly there are many troubling, systemic issues confronting us as a nation, and I think these highly volatile moments are opportune times for us to look inside ourselves to see how we can personally help address and alleviate injustice. These are the times for our Aggie Family to join together and reflect about our commitment to USU’s Principles of Community – our institutional Aggie pledge to diversity, human dignity and social responsibility.

Please join with me today as I reassert one of my critical obligations as university president: to cultivate an environment of respectful engagement and respectful discourse at every level of our society. Thank you.

Respectfully,

Noelle E. Cockett

President, Utah State University
27
CONTACT
Tim Vitale
Associate Vice President for Strategic Communications
University Marketing and Communications
 435-797-1356
 tim.vitale@usu.edu

ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
- Aggies Think, Care, Act
TOPICS
    
Post your Comment
We welcome your comments but your submission will NOT be published online. Your comment or question will be forwarded to the appropriate person. Thank you.
Justice, Inclusion and Humanity – May 30
 June 1, 2020
TU students, faculty and staff,

This past week has brought a heightened sense of shock and sadness as we witnessed an unarmed man being deprived of his rights, his dignity and, eventually, his very breath. George Floyd’s death was captured on video and shared with a world already on edge.

Whether it’s on a Minneapolis street in 2020 or in a Tulsa elevator in 1921, the legacy of racism is deep, pervasive and intolerable.

You, the members of our university community, have a choice. You can choose to recognize bias – in yourself and others – and have the personal courage to call it out. You can be vigilant and vocal. You can be an agent for positive change and an advocate for those at risk of being marginalized. Although we are apart, we are not alone. We are stronger together, and we must live our commitment to justice, inclusion and humanity.

Janet K. Levit
Interim President
A Message About Grieving and Searching for Answers Together
My Dearest UVM: I write to you to share what is on my heart. I am bursting with so many emotions, I need to share. As I wipe away tears that keep forming in the corners of my eyes, know I am thinking of all of you, my UVM family. I really appreciate the calls and texts from so many of you who wanted to make sure I was okay. I am also grateful for the calls where you shared your ideas, anger, and grief with me. Like many of you, I watched in horror the video showing the death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police officers. I sobbed for George as if he was my own son or brother lying on the cold, hard concrete. I then wept for Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and Tony McDade, and soon I was crying for the many who have tragically lost their lives over the years because of racism and inequality. 


Unfortunately, the killing of black men or women by police is not new; it is so common that initially many turned to the usual responses: hashtags, T-shirts, flags, and national leaders condemning this horrific act. Still, George Floyd's homicide seems different to me and so many Blacks or African Americans. Was it the cold, hard concrete he died on, the cry for his mama as he took his last breaths, the plea from so many to help him that was ignored, or was this just the final straw? I continue to reflect on why this tragedy has become a global call for change and action. Regardless, this hurts me to the core. I am exhausted. My Black and African American family and friends are exhausted. We are sick and tired of being sick and tired.

As an African American woman who is also the University's Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, I am yearning for justice, looking for accountability, praying for solutions, and wishing we could be together to comfort one another. This crime against humanity, coupled with the impact of COVID-19 on us as a society has forever changed us. Exactly how we let these events change us, is up to us. For me, I am choosing to remain hopeful and draw upon my faith as I push away my tears, so I can see a better future. 

Despite the challenges we face and the fear we may feel, let us redouble our efforts and insist on systemic reform. I know we cannot take on everything, but we can have an impact at UVM, and in the communities where we serve that will branch out to advance critical social and cultural efforts everywhere. We must use our educational platform to share and enhance knowledge, understanding, ideas and solutions that not only address issues of prejudice and discrimination, but also transform lives for generations to come. We must endeavor to inspire professionals who will be more just, equitable, compassionate, and anti-racist.

As we grieve and search for answers together, I ask that you look after one another, in particular for those of us that are Black or African American. I ask that you condemn any behavior that diminishes the humanity of others. This vicious cycle must be broken because if not now when? The world around us seems to be exploding right now, and we all deserve better. I know I could say so much more. This will not be the last time you hear from me. This work of racial equity has been my life's work, and I need help now more than ever. I need partners. Let us collectively work together and steadfastly to confront and address generations of institutionalized racism. 

I am going to start by hosting a Teach-In to help catalyze action. In addition, I intend to create digital "Brave Spaces,"to support and lift up voices from within our University that are committed to this work. I am asking you to join me, plan with me, lead with me, and when I reach out for your help, please answer my call in both your words and your actions.

This is my single story, so please listen to others who have stories they are willing to share. Your voice matters, and no one can take that away from you unless you give it to them.

In Solidarity for Change and Peace,

Wanda
                                 
Wanda Heading-Grant
Vice President
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

PUBLISHED06-03-2020
WANDA HEADING-GRANT, VP DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCL
The University of Vermont Burlington, VT 05405 (802) 656-3131Contact UVM | Accessibility | Privacy/Terms of Use | © 2020
Dear VCU and VCU Health community,

For several days, I have watched crowds of people across the nation and here in Richmond express their anger and frustration over distressing, horrific events against African Americans in our country, including the recent killings of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Breonna Taylor in Louisville, and Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia.

What I see again and again is a very public manifestation of American history and, indeed, America’s present. It is impossible to comprehend centuries of horrifying injustice against minorities in this nation, particularly African Americans. Yet, even in 2020, your skin color still influences your social mobility and vitality even more so than where you were educated, live, or work. In America, it is still far too easy for those with privilege and prejudice to undo the hard-earned successes of others, particularly racial minorities. Individual, institutional, and structural racism is still our tragic reality.

We must do better. We must recognize and respect the dignity and humanity in each of us.

This also calls for us to remain mindful of the communities we share. The protests over the past few days on and near VCU’s Monroe Park Campus have resulted in damage to our shared community, including broken windows and doors, graffiti, damaged vehicles, and debris fires. I am grateful to our many employees who have responded quickly to make repairs and keep everyone on our campus safe to live, learn, and heal.

We will work together to fix what’s broken here. We must fix what has been broken in our communities across this nation for decades. 

Let’s commit to repairing broken systems that serve to create mistrust in government and law enforcement. Let’s resolve to make equitable and fair the distribution of justice. Let’s pledge to reconcile our own struggles between who we are and who we strive to become as individuals and as communities.

As we continue to process what is happening across our nation—especially the very public violence against African Americans and to our shared communities—the one thing that makes sense is that we can no longer afford to stand by idly. None of us is immune. We must stand to change the systems we have created. We must continue to empower and support our faculty, staff, students, alumni, and neighbors to change the world by voting, and by making equity and inclusion accessible everywhere. We must think about our shared humanity in more enlightened ways, because quite frankly, black lives must matter if we are to ever realize the potential of VCU’s shared community and the vast privileges of belonging to a global community.

Sincerely,

Michael Rao, Ph.D.

President

VCU and VCU Health System

21st-Century University, Community, To VCU
Tagged Ahmaud Arbery, Black Lives Matter, Breonna Taylor, George Floyd

Skip to main contentSkip to search
VIRGINIA TECH™HOME
Universal Access Toggle
APPLY
VISIT
GIVE

SHOP

Resources for

VIRGINIA TECH DAILY

MENU

SEARCH
Virginia Tech Daily/ Articles/ 2020/ May/ A statement from President Tim Sands and Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity Menah Pratt-Clarke
Explore
A statement from President Tim Sands and Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity Menah Pratt-Clarke
May 31, 2020

Aerial view of Virginia Tech Drillfield
Dear Hokies,

As we reflect on a tumultuous week in the United States – surpassing 100,000 in the official count of deaths ascribed to COVID-19 and the boiling over of frustration and anger over the tragic and unnecessary deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and George Floyd - we do so from the relative safety of our quiet Blacksburg homes. Jarring images and videos taken by some of our own children on the streets of Chicago and Washington, D.C., bring home the immediacy of the crisis. It saddens us to know that many in our Virginia Tech community have lost loved ones, or have been traumatized by the events of the past weeks.

Dwelling on images, dramatic events, and counts can distract from the common truths that the pandemic and race-driven murders reveal. As great as our ideals of freedom, justice, and equality may be, the reality is persistently and pervasively falling short of what we say we are all about. From the marked disparities in COVID-19 illness and death across racial, ethnic, and economic divides, to the unrelenting burden of racism, past and present, systemic and overt, we cannot continue to expect incremental change and the goodwill of the majority to solve a multigenerational problem.

So what do we do? What actions can we take? While there is a place for protests, we must do more than protest. We have an opportunity as individuals and in our own communities to construct a microcosm of the society in which we wish to live. At Virginia Tech, we have anchored that aspiration in our Principles of Community, but principles only become meaningful if they are acted upon. Our strategic plan, The Virginia Tech Difference – Advancing Beyond Boundaries, takes the principles one step further to actionable priorities and accountability. Let’s work together to ensure that Virginia Tech becomes a model for a just and equitable learning community that prepares the next generation to lead in a new and better world. Over the next few weeks, the Office for Inclusion and Diversity will be working in collaboration with diversity directors, InclusiveVT representatives, diversity committees, advocates, and allies to identify specific action steps to work for sustainable transformation. We hope you will join in those efforts to help make our world a better place for all.

In the spirit of Ut Prosim,

Tim Sands,
President
Menah Pratt-Clarke,
Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity
Those in the Virginia Tech community who need assistance or counseling support may contact:

Cook Counseling Center at 540-231-6557.
Dean of Students Office at 540-231-3787. Referral to a campus cleric may be made through this office.
Employee Assistance Program
Anthem at 855-223-9277
Aetna at 888-238-6232
Kaiser Permanente at 866-517-7042
Optima Health Vantage HMO at 866-846-2682
Hokie Wellness at 540-231-2233 (students) or 540-231-8878 (employees)
InclusiveVT at 540-231-7500
Office of Housing and Residence Life at 540-231-6205
Women’s Center at Virginia Tech at 540-231-7806
CONTACTS:
Tracy Vosburgh

540-231-5396

Mark Owczarski

540-231-5396

Top News
Article Item
Three people on a zoom call
Unfinished Conversations on Race: Education is key in combating racism, article
Article Item
Caption: Webster Santos (center) and the mitochondrial uncoupler team. Six males are smiling as they stand in front of a large window in Hahn Hall.
Virginia Tech drug researcher develops ‘fat burning’ molecule that has implications for treatment of obesity, article
Article Item
2020 President’s Award for Excellence recipients during celebration on June 4
Five employees named as recipients of the 2020 President’s Award for Excellence, article
TAGS
Beyond BoundariesCampus and CommunityInclusion and DiversityOffice of the PresidentStrategic PlanTop News
Map of Virginia with pins showing locations of Virginia Tech campuses. See All Locations link which follows provides details
Virginia Tech logo
GET DIRECTIONS  

SEE ALL LOCATIONS  

CONTACT VIRGINIA TECH  

University Status
Principles of Community
Privacy Statement
Acceptable Use
We Remember
University Libraries
Accessibility
Consumer Information
Stop Abuse
Policies
Equal Opportunity
WVTF
University Bookstore
Jobs at Virginia Tech
Strategic Plan
© 2020 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved.

Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linked In
Pintrest
YouTube
Share to Facebook
, Number of shares695
Share to Twitter
Share to LinkedIn
Share to Email
To the University community,

On Sunday, I offered some brief reflections on social media regarding the death of George Floyd. Those reflections and that medium were inadequate to the topic, which is why I am writing you today.

Let me start with the obvious but nonetheless essential. What happened to George Floyd – his callous and indifferent killing at the hands of a white police officer – was immoral and sickening. As Dean Risa Goluboff wrote recently, it might be tempting also to say it was "shocking,"but that wrongly suggests it was surprising. The recent and senseless deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and so many others before them whose lives were cut short demonstrate otherwise. This sort of violence against black people, including at the hands of those who are supposed to protect all of us, is sadly all too familiar and stretches back not just decades, but centuries, through the Civil Rights Era, Jim Crow, Reconstruction, and slavery.

And let me apologize. When I wrote last weekend, I felt deep despair. Despair for the treatment experienced by so many people of color in this country – not just by police, but by every segment of society, including higher education, including here at UVA. Despair for the current state of our country, which seems to be unraveling before our eyes. Despair for the continued racial inequities across a wide range of contexts – education, criminal justice, health care, housing, jobs – that are still there, as is the systemic racism that underlies those inequities.

But in my own despair, in indulging in it, I failed to express the genuine sorrow I feel for the unequal and unfair burden that I know our black students, faculty, and staff carry with them, not just through this episode, but through every day. George Floyd's death is just another sharp reminder that far too many people of color in this country live a life that is less secure – less safe – than white people, in part because of encounters with police officers who inflicted harm on people they were meant to protect. As a white parent of four kids, I have not had to have the conversation that so many black parents have had with theirs, cautioning them about how to behave around those who are meant to protect all of us. For all of that, I am truly sorry – both for that burden and for failing to acknowledge it.

And I know it's time to act and not simply to despair or rest on faith. Over the weekend, the Division for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at UVA posted a powerful statement from a group of faculty, staff, and community members reflecting on the latest tragedies. In it, they wrote:

We must continue to do the hard work that will help ensure that our future is different, more just, more accepting, and more inclusive. The future we envision is one in which the devaluing of life is no longer accepted, and where bigotry no longer contaminates our systems and institutions, burdening some community members much more than others.

I couldn't agree more, and I am committed to that work. It's in many ways why I came (back) here.

Through the hard work of many students, faculty, and staff – not to mention the persistent advocacy of alumni and community members – UVA is a better place today than it was a decade ago, or the decade before that. But there is more work to do in order for UVA to look more like the state and country in which we live; in order for UVA to be a trusted neighbor to the Charlottesville region; and in order for all students, faculty, and staff to have their voices and their presence equally valued, respected, and included in their everyday lives on Grounds.

I have tried to champion some of that work in my two years as president, and some of it – like increasing student and faculty diversity and being a good neighbor to the Charlottesville region – is in our strategic plan. To complement and push that work forward, today I have asked three colleagues to lead a racial equity task force: Ian Solomon, the Dean of the Batten School of Public Policy; Kevin McDonald, our Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion; and Barbara Brown Wilson, a faculty member in the School of Architecture and the faculty director of The Equity Center. This group will convene with students, faculty, and staff to gather together the growing list of recommendations, suggestions, and demands regarding the subject of racial equity at UVA – and to solicit others – and will send me a concrete and prioritized set of recommendations about the best steps forward, including actions that can be implemented right away.

Eleven days after I returned to UVA to begin as president, I spoke at an event to mark and remember the one-year anniversary of the white supremacist march through Grounds the year before. As I said then and will say again here:

I stand here today as an ally. I am surely an imperfect one, which is to say I am human, like all of you. I will disappoint some of you for doing too much and others for doing too little, some for going too fast and others for not going fast enough. But I know in my heart where I would like to go, and that is the place where our aspirations and our realities finally intersect. I know that many of you, so many of you, would like to get there as well.

I look forward to our continued, imperfect journey together.

Best,

Jim
--
James E. Ryan
President
University of Virginia

MEDIA CONTACT
Brian Coy

btc6r@virginia.edu 434-243-2070


Trending
THIS WEEK
UVA Renames Building for Walter Ridley, First African American to Earn Doctoral Degree
UVA Renames Building for Walter Ridley, First African American to Earn Doctoral Degree MORE
UVA Intends to Start In-Person Classes in August
UVA Intends to Start In-Person Classes in August MORE
Today, Again, I Am Overwhelmed By Grief and Rage …
Today, Again, I Am Overwhelmed By Grief and Rage … MORE
Video
POPULAR ON UVA TODAY
virtual_finals_thumb.jpg
UVA Class of 2020 Virtual Celebration MORE
year_in_review_thumb.jpg
A Year We Will Never Forget: 2019-20 in Review MORE
jim_ryan_speech_thumb.jpg
‘What Will You Carry With You?' Remarks From UVA President Jim Ryan MORE

Latest Stories
VIEW ALL >
A mobile robot, designed to work in hazardous environments, has been modified to kill the virus that causes COVID-19. (Photos by Sanjay Suchak, University Communications)
RESEARCH & DISCOVERY
Mechanical Engineers Develop Coronavirus Decontamination Robot
(Photo by Kipp Teague via Creative Commons)
BUSINESS & GOVERNMENT
Students Who Lost Internships Will Help Rural Businesses in New Pa
Dear Washington University community,

To say that this has been a difficult and painful week would be an extreme understatement. Like you, I've watched with sadness and grief as events have unfolded first in Minneapolis in response to the killing of George Floyd, and then across the country as individuals and communities have taken to the streets to express their anger and frustration at the racial injustice that continues to plague our nation. The ongoing racial violence that we are witnessing against people of color is nothing short of devastating. In recent months, we have seen a rise in anti-Asian and anti-Asian-American violence, largely perpetuated by other Americans. In the last two weeks, we have seen the continuation of violence against Black Americans, both at the hands of officers of the state and private individuals. The events of the past several days reflect only the most recent in a long line of wrongs that have been inflicted upon our communities of color. 

Here in St. Louis, we are all too familiar with the refrain of those who are committed to addressing issues of inequality and racism – "No justice, no peace."Given our commitment to activism and social justice, it's no surprise that the St. Louis community has joined the call to action, and I'm heartened to see the passion that drives our friends and neighbors to make their voices heard. I also am deeply concerned for the well-being of our community and remain committed to working toward a constructive path forward in our region that tackles structural disparities and inequities.

I've spent a lot of time this weekend thinking, and engaging in conversation with other university leaders, about how we can best support our community and advance the cause of racial justice during this time – what we could say or do that would bring comfort to those who are hurting, and show solidarity with those who are taking action. Given the enormity of the issues before us, we know without question that words are not enough, and that no "statement"will begin to resolve the tremendous challenges that are still before us. And yet, there are some things that are important to say.

First, we must acknowledge those who are suffering. To our students, faculty, staff, and any other members of our community who are feeling targeted, unheard, or unsupported, we see you and are here for you. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion means more than just welcoming every person into our community. It means valuing you as individuals with your own identities, actively acknowledging that you matter, and unwaveringly supporting your right to be treated fairly and equally in every aspect of our society. We stand with you and condemn all acts of hate, aggression, or disrespect toward any racial group that may happen anywhere in our community, our region, our country, or the world. We are committed to supporting all members of our community, and we must redouble our efforts to achieve the equity that is foundational to fostering this environment.

In addition, we remain committed to making a difference. After the killing of Michael Brown in Ferguson in 2014, our Washington University community began the long process of looking inward, to see how we could create space for honest dialogue about race, ethnicity, inequality, and social justice, how we could "do better and be better."Since that time, we have taken steps as a community to become more fully engaged on these issues, and to work toward positive change. At our most recent Day of Dialogue and Action this spring, we reaffirmed our commitment to creating "intentional spaces to listen, extend empathy, celebrate, and engage in dialogue"in hopes of reflecting on our own humanity and the humanity of others. The events of this week are a painful reminder of how much work we all still have to do, as a nation and as a society.

Finally, we must take action. This includes not only supporting our community, but also doing what is at the core of our mission: leveraging our activities in support of research, teaching, and patient care to make a difference in helping to forward the cause of racial and social justice in our community, our region, and around the world. Already some of our schools have announced initiatives aimed at improving racial equity, especially focusing on racial violence. We anticipate announcing additional initiatives in the coming weeks.

The separation of our community due to the COVID-19 pandemic has placed an additional strain on our ability to come together to support, listen to, and learn from one another. We are all struggling with the disconnection from our peers, friends, and support networks, especially during this time of additional stress. But this only makes our need to create space for engagement within our community even more urgent, and we are working toward ways to do that in the days ahead. In the short-term, please stay tuned for invitations to opportunities to participate in observances and events that our leaders are currently planning. In the longer-term, we continue to listen and engage with members of our community to work toward substantive, mission-oriented action that we will take institutionally to make our city and our world beacons of opportunity for all. 

In these incredibly difficult times, I know there are no words that will be enough. But it's important for you to know that as a community, we are united in our commitment to justice and racial equity.

Sincerely,

Andrew D. Martin
Chancellor

 
Denouncing racial violence and the ugliness of historic, systemic inequality, President Kirk Schulz and the university's executive leadership pledged greater accountability in confronting racial and social justice failures.

"We must consider our own roles in maintaining systemic racism and accepting racial violence, even when it makes us uncomfortable,"a letter from the university system's executive leadership team reads. "When our actions are informed by the truth of others, we can move forward, together, courageously and realize the aspirations of racial and social justice. Only then can we begin to create an authentic space from which to proceed."

In addition to Schulz, the letter was signed by interim Provost Bryan Slinker, incoming Provost Elizabeth Chilton and all chancellors and vice presidents.

Enter search text
Search

All the UW
Current site
Skip to main content
MyUW
Calendar
Directories
Libraries
UW Medicine
Maps
UW Today
Helpful Links
Computing/IT
Workday/ISC
Husky Card
UW Bothell
UW Tacoma
UW Facebook
UW Twitter
University of WashingtonUniversity of Washington
StudentsParentsFaculty & StaffAlumni  Quick Links
UW LEADERSHIP
 
REGENTS
 
PRESIDENT
 
PROVOST
Office of the President
Home
Office of the President
Archive
Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
May 30, 2020

Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
Ana Mari Cauce

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do they see a strong, resilient, educated woman?
Do they see someone who is their ancestors' wildest dreams?
Do they see a woman who has friends and family they love?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do you only see my skin color?
Do you only see the stereotypes others created for me?
Do you only see your fear?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

My brothers and sisters are villainized for asking questions.
My brothers and sisters are detained for walking on a public street.
My brothers and sisters are killed for existing.

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

I wonder when I will be harassed for existing.
I wonder when the police will be called to my door.
I wonder when I will be the one mourned.

I'm terrified to go outside.

– Laura Cañate, MBA '18

The last few weeks and months have been a time of jarring contrasts. Community members donating masks sewn by hand to protect essential workers, while mask-free revelers flout distancing mandates at pools and beaches. Groups of armed white demonstrators march against stay-at-home orders at state capitols with impunity, while for Black Americans the simple act of walking down the street, jogging or birdwatching can be fraught with danger, and even end in death. Too many are left to wonder, as does UW MBA alumna Laura Cañate, ‘18, "when I will be the one mourned."

Many of us have seen those compelling "before and after"pandemic pictures of cityscapes around the world. The before pictures show buildings shrouded by pollution while the after pictures reveal majestic mountains or vast stretches of squalid, overcrowded houses in the background. It's like a veil has been lifted allowing us to see more clearly what was there all along.

Support and resources

SafeCampus
Bias Incident Reporting Tool

Bothell
Counseling Center
Student Diversity Center

Seattle
Counseling Center
Let's Talk
Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center

Tacoma
Counseling and Psychological Services
Center for Equity and Inclusion

Employees
CareLink

Periods of upheaval and crisis both test and reveal our character, as individuals, communities and nations. Over the last few weeks and months, I've written about the courage and creativity of so many in our community. I've never been prouder of our faculty, students and staff and I am confident that we can and will continue to learn and grow together, building toward a healthier future for all.

But first, we must seize the clarity this moment offers. Painful though it may be, we must face up to the inequities this pandemic has laid bare, and the ugliness that it has revealed. We ARE all in this together, I wear a mask not to protect me, but to protect you. And it is also unquestionably true, that we are not all on equal footing. There are class and race differences not only in who can work from home, and who must venture out, but in who has kept their job and who hasn't. While low-income and communities of color are more apt to work at jobs that require them to be there in person, these same jobs are less likely to come with health care or sick leave. These communities are more apt to be in neighborhoods characterized by overcrowding and with less access to healthy food choices and recreational activities, conditions that no doubt play a role in the fact that people of color are more apt to suffer complications and even death from COVID-19.

These structural inequities, and the institutional racism that they reflect, create and amplify the conditions that led to the appalling ugliness that we've seen in the last few days and weeks — laid bare once again by ubiquity of cellphone cameras. The post-pandemic goal should not be to go back to the way it was. We must do better. As we enter into a period where a new vigilance around hygiene and closeness will become habitual, and where we measure the consequences of our individual actions not just by their effect on our own health, but on how they might affect our family and friends, let's create a "new normal"where attention to issues of equity becomes habitual as well. In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up – or go back.

Laura, I see you, I hear you. I know the smart, strong, sensitive woman that you are. I know your pain. My brother has been murdered next to yours, leaving a hole in my heart and life that can never be filled. And to you and all Black students, faculty and staff, while I can only imagine what it's like to walk in your shoes because my light skin protects me from your terror, I can and will walk with you.

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor — say their names, see their faces, hear their cries. Weep, then act.

 

FacebookTwitterLinkedInEmailShare
CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2020!
On June 13, graduates, their families and friends will gather from around the world to join in celebrating the Class of 2020 in the University of Washington's first ever live, interactive Commencement webcast.

LEARN MORE
President's Blog 
Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
6 days ago

Empowering people with disabilities requires investment and innovation
1 week ago

Washington's universities are anything but discretionary
1 week ago

American flags on the HUB lawn
A chance to reflect and honor those who gave their lives
2 weeks ago

More
Subscribe

Email
Email

RSS
RSS

PRESIDENT'S TWITTER

INVITE THE PRESIDENT
Want President Ana Mari Cauce to attend your event? Submit a request.
University of Washington
Be boundless
Connect with us:
Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest
Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms
© 2020 University of Washington | Seattle, WA
A MESSAGE TO OUR COMMUNITY
Posted on May 31, 2020
The events happening this week in the Twin Cities, across the nation and here in Madison demonstrate the anger that members of our community feel over years of unequal treatment.  This anger demands meaningful action, particularly for those of us who are in positions of privilege.

I recognize that words condemning the tragic and inexcusable death of George Floyd are not enough. UWPD Chief Kristen Roman and her fellow Dane County chiefs are already engaged with the community to reduce trust gaps and improve safety through the Law Enforcement and Leaders of Color Collaboration. I appreciate the work that UWPD has done to ensure that its training and policies protect and serve our communities of color as effectively as they protect and serve other members of our community.

Our work extends beyond law enforcement to every facet of our institution. Although most of us cannot physically be on campus because of the coronavirus, we continue to work on creating a more inclusive and diverse community through the efforts of Diversity, Equity and Educational Achievement:admissions and recruitment:faculty/staff recruitment and retention:Student Affairs:Human Resources, our schools and colleges as well as within individual departments and units.

Each of us – particularly those of us who do not face the daily challenge of living amid inequity and injustice – must contribute to and lead the change that is needed. There are many ways to become more aware and involved. A list of resources is available on the DDEEA website.

Our campus has a long and proud tradition of helping bring about lasting change through peaceful protest. Thousands of people gathered peacefully at the Capitol Saturday afternoon. Unfortunately, a small number chose to engage in destructive acts that attacked already-struggling local businesses. I condemn this violence:it drowns out the message that needs to be heard and is likely to create backlash and more anger on all sides, rather than promote the changes that are needed.

I urge anyone participating in protests to engage in peaceful activism that drives towards systemic change. Use the power and privilege of your education to speak up, reject hate, racism and violence and use respect to build our community. Please take care for your own safety and those around you in this time of COVID-19.

Finally, I encourage those who are anxious or angry about recent national events to connect with the campus resources that are here to support you. These include the Multicultural Student Center, DDEEA, University Health Services and the Employee Assistance Office.

To our Black and Brown students, staff and faculty, I want to say unambiguously: You belong here, you are important to this campus, your lives matter and I am committed to your safety.

This is a time of unprecedented challenge but I remain steadfast in the belief that together, we can move forward toward a more just future.

POST NAVIGATION
Previous post: Planning for a safe return to campus
Dear UWM Faculty, Staff and Students,

Last Friday, I reaffirmed UWM’s commitment to supporting and protecting our diversity, equity and inclusivity. In the short time since then, we’ve seen our cities, region and nation erupt in protest in response to the killing of George Floyd by a Minneapolis Police Department officer. Voice after voice has joined together to condemn decades of institutional violence, injustice and failures in our criminal justice system. And rightly so.

Let me be clear when I express, both for myself and campus leaders, our strong and clear solidarity in support of black lives and with those who are peacefully protesting. The time for successfully transforming our society is now. We support those who are peacefully protesting and the change they will bring.

Your voices are important, and we care deeply about making positive change.

What actions are we taking now to make a difference?

We have been connecting our students, faculty, staff and others through the multicultural success coaches of the Black Student Cultural Center to ensure that safety and a sense of belonging are addressed, particularly as it relates to our African-American males.
We continue to provide resources on how to engage in both individual and facilitated discussions around racism and anti-racist education.
We continue to work with MKE Fellows, a program that focuses on African-American males before and after their entry to UWM. Contact Ray Anthony Fikes for additional information.
We continue to support our ongoing African-American Male Initiative which serves as an important recruitment and retention tool.
What action will we commit to for the near future?

Going forward and working in partnership with governance groups, we will institute mandatory anti-bias, anti-racism training for all members of the UWM family. More details on this will follow.
To set the tone for future discussions around race, we encourage all to visit the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. This resource is an integral part of our ongoing diversity, equity and inclusion framework.
Once again, let me stress our unequivocally strong stance against racism, violence and oppression. Every person who sets foot on one of our campuses has the right to feel safe, respected and valued.

We see you. You matter. We care.

Best regards,

Mark A. Mone
Chancellor
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Stand with me, stand together: Black Lives Matter
DEPARTMENT(S): 
Office of the President
June 1, 2020
The past several months have presented unprecedented challenges for our community, the nation, and the world. Events of the past week have reminded us that while we are all focused on keeping our loved ones safe and healthy, the underlying inequities within our society remain. In fact, we must acknowledge that societal inequalities are actually being exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic.

The protests of the past few days, ignited by the killing of George Floyd, but truly fueled by the continued targeting, demonization, and abuse of black people across our country, highlight legitimate anger, which I share. The uprising we're now seeing points to the significant work we still have to do as a society to confront and eliminate racism. I stand with those who are outraged at the senseless loss of black lives. I offer my support to those who deal daily with racism and other forms of discrimination. I state unequivocally that Black Lives Matter; that racism, discrimination, and bigotry violate our values as a university and that they will not be tolerated in our community. I ask each of you stand with me, with us, and for your friends, your peers, your students, your neighbors as we seek a path forward. 

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. paraphrased Massachusetts-born abolitionist minister Theodore Parker when he said "The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."That arc feels much too long these days. And we must acknowledge that it won't bend on its own. Each of us, especially those of us who are privileged, must consider how we can contribute to bending the arc toward justice, and do our part to make the universe we want to see. 

There is no perfect answer, no perfect action we can take, because these societal problems run deep and have been created and perpetuated over generations. Nonetheless, I truly believe that our community can and must do more to live our values and advance the causes of justice as we look toward the coming year. I pledge to explore that with you further as we start to come back together in the weeks and months ahead. I welcome your ideas for specific steps that WPI can take as we continue to seek to create a truly equitable community where all are treated with respect, and all can thrive. I know we can make a difference together.

This has been and remains a trying and turbulent time. Both the toll of the virus and the upheaval in the world are real. Dealing with the scale of what we are witnessing is especially challenging because we are not physically together. However, we can still lift one another up through our community. Our resources are here to provide support, including the Student Development & Counseling Center, Office of Multicultural Affairs , the Employee Assistance Program, or simply the comfort of colleagues and friends over Zoom. 

Be safe and well. Standing together we will bend the arc of the universe toward justice.

Laurie

WPI in the World
Global Impact Program
GLOBAL PROJECTS PROGRAM
About 
Let's Answer This Call of Distress
June 2, 2020

Dear Members of the UW Community,

As I am sure you are all seeing in Wyoming or wherever you may be, many communities around the nation are in turmoil in reaction to the killing of George Floyd, and to the history of racism, intolerance and bigotry and their terrible outcomes that this event signifies to people across the nation and across the world. Newspapers and television networks are showing daily what is happening in cities like Minneapolis, New York, Chicago, Washington, D.C., and elsewhere, telling a painful narrative of national upheaval that is perhaps unparalleled since the era of the civil rights movement of the 1960s.

The national reaction is widespread, and certainly not limited to cities. The small university community where I have lived the last six years, amid fields of corn and soybeans, experienced significant peaceful protests to show solidarity with brown, black and other communities. But we also experienced violence, including vandalism, looting and gunshots being fired. All three of our nearby towns of Champaign (pop. 88,000), Urbana (pop. 42,000) and Savoy (pop. 8,400) went under curfew Sunday evening for the first time that anyone I know can recall; a limited reopening of our campus was postponed; and numerous activities, even long-planned events that were to be virtual, including a board meeting I was to attend yesterday, were canceled.

This upheaval is a distress call to us all. It is a distress call that we must continue to be vigilant about the continuing racism, bigotry and intolerance that have no place in our community. It is a distress call from our friends, family and colleagues who, even if they are safe at home in this COVID-19 crisis and are not directly experiencing violence against them at this moment, feel a sympathetic nerve has been touched that causes pain very, very deep inside.

Yesterday, I had emails from two different people expressing the very personal distress they are experiencing as a result of recent events. One, from an African-American colleague, asked us to please know that black and brown people who may seem to be relatively removed from this turmoil are actually experiencing very deeply felt trauma in response to not only the recent events, but to what they signify about our society. She soldiered on and attended meetings, but in her words, "we are not OK" and need support. Another, from international Hispanic communities, urged international members of his research team to be very careful going out of their homes, or better yet, to avoid it completely. So, I ask you all to please think very deeply about these events, and especially to reach out to your friends and colleagues, and ask them how they are.  Ask them what you can do to help them.  Ask them how we together can help address the larger issues that these feelings reveal about our society. And commit to it.

Chief Diversity Officer Emily Monago wrote yesterday to our community to draw attention to these events and to reaffirm the values of the University of Wyoming, and I think it is worth repeating some of her words: "During these unprecedented times, let us remember our University of Wyoming values where racism, violence, sexual violence, antisemitism, homophobia, transphobia, sexism, ableism, national origin, and other forms of disparate treatment, injustices and inequities are denounced. Let us stay committed to our resolve to educate our campus community to interrupt, stop and eliminate inequities, injustices and violence from our society at the local, regional, national and global levels. Let us resolve to be a united community regardless of social identities or beliefs."

I want to reaffirm that the University of Wyoming does, and will continue, to uphold these values. Further, diversity and inclusion make our community strong, vital and vibrant. They are absolutely necessary for the excellence we strive for. They require a commitment from all of us, every day, to embrace our shared university values actively, not passively. And they require a commitment that we care for one another in order to create a sense of well-being across our community. I ask you all to do just this at this time in our history, and to commit with me to continue do everything in your power to ensure that our diverse university community thrives in the future. It will make us all, and the university we serve, better for it.

Sincerely,

President-Designate Edward Seidel




May 30, 2020

Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
Ana Mari Cauce

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do they see a strong, resilient, educated woman?
Do they see someone who is their ancestors' wildest dreams?
Do they see a woman who has friends and family they love?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do you only see my skin color?
Do you only see the stereotypes others created for me?
Do you only see your fear?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

My brothers and sisters are villainized for asking questions.
My brothers and sisters are detained for walking on a public street.
My brothers and sisters are killed for existing.

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

I wonder when I will be harassed for existing.
I wonder when the police will be called to my door.
I wonder when I will be the one mourned.

I'm terrified to go outside.

– Laura Cañate, MBA '18

The last few weeks and months have been a time of jarring contrasts. Community members donating masks sewn by hand to protect essential workers, while mask-free revelers flout distancing mandates at pools and beaches. Groups of armed white demonstrators march against stay-at-home orders at state capitols with impunity, while for Black Americans the simple act of walking down the street, jogging or birdwatching can be fraught with danger, and even end in death. Too many are left to wonder, as does UW MBA alumna Laura Cañate, ‘18, "when I will be the one mourned."

Many of us have seen those compelling "before and after" pandemic pictures of cityscapes around the world. The before pictures show buildings shrouded by pollution while the after pictures reveal majestic mountains or vast stretches of squalid, overcrowded houses in the background. It's like a veil has been lifted allowing us to see more clearly what was there all along.

Support and resources

SafeCampus
Bias Incident Reporting Tool

Bothell
Counseling Center
Student Diversity Center

Seattle
Counseling Center
Let's Talk
Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center

Tacoma
Counseling and Psychological Services
Center for Equity and Inclusion

Employees
CareLink

Periods of upheaval and crisis both test and reveal our character, as individuals, communities and nations. Over the last few weeks and months, I've written about the courage and creativity of so many in our community. I've never been prouder of our faculty, students and staff and I am confident that we can and will continue to learn and grow together, building toward a healthier future for all.

But first, we must seize the clarity this moment offers. Painful though it may be, we must face up to the inequities this pandemic has laid bare, and the ugliness that it has revealed. We ARE all in this together, I wear a mask not to protect me, but to protect you. And it is also unquestionably true, that we are not all on equal footing. There are class and race differences not only in who can work from home, and who must venture out, but in who has kept their job and who hasn't. While low-income and communities of color are more apt to work at jobs that require them to be there in person, these same jobs are less likely to come with health care or sick leave. These communities are more apt to be in neighborhoods characterized by overcrowding and with less access to healthy food choices and recreational activities, conditions that no doubt play a role in the fact that people of color are more apt to suffer complications and even death from COVID-19.

These structural inequities, and the institutional racism that they reflect, create and amplify the conditions that led to the appalling ugliness that we've seen in the last few days and weeks — laid bare once again by ubiquity of cellphone cameras. The post-pandemic goal should not be to go back to the way it was. We must do better. As we enter into a period where a new vigilance around hygiene and closeness will become habitual, and where we measure the consequences of our individual actions not just by their effect on our own health, but on how they might affect our family and friends, let's create a "new normal" where attention to issues of equity becomes habitual as well. In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up – or go back.

Laura, I see you, I hear you. I know the smart, strong, sensitive woman that you are. I know your pain. My brother has been murdered next to yours, leaving a hole in my heart and life that can never be filled. And to you and all Black students, faculty and staff, while I can only imagine what it's like to walk in your shoes because my light skin protects me from your terror, I can and will walk with you.

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor — say their names, see their faces, hear their cries. Weep, then act.
Dear Warrior community,

Yet again our nation is rising in anger and sorrow at another senseless death of a black man, this time due to brutality exhibited during an arrest. I wish to share my thoughts with you about this terrible tragedy.

Unfortunately, racism and the disparate impact of violence in the black community remain national issues, but we should remember that each of these incidents involves real people. George Floyd had family and friends who mourn his death, and dreams that will never be fulfilled. My heart aches for this loss, and my sympathies go out to his loved ones. No person in America — regardless of their race, creed or religion — should ever fear for their life simply because of who they are or how they look.

But the fear is real, because far too often it feels like we’re living the same nightmare. How do we deal with it? We demand better of all citizens, particularly those we trust to keep us safe. We also come together — not in violence, but in protest against violence, and in sympathy for those to whom violence has been committed. The compassionate, inclusive and community-minded ethos that defines Wayne State is one of the things I value most about this university, and we need to draw on it now.

Even though we can’t gather physically to mourn, we can still support each other through the means we have. Wayne State University will host a virtual dialogue on Wednesday, June 3, at 5 p.m. We hope you will join us using this Zoom link (Meeting ID: 831 3199 8274. Password: 598720).

Another reason I write today is to remind you that senseless deaths and mishandling of justice like those we've seen in Minneapolis and Atlanta are precisely why we take racial sensitivity training so seriously with the Wayne State University Police Department. Our officers regularly receive training on how to act in all types of situations, with all types of people. We are now taking the lead in this important training with the establishment of the headquarters of National De-escalation Training Center (NDTC) with Wayne State’s police department. The NDTC has filed for non-profit corporation status with the State of Michigan and has already begun de-escalation training of sworn Wayne State University police officers. The training offered by the NDTC has been specifically developed and designed to exceed traditional de-escalation methods, with the goal of fostering positive interactions with citizens and reducing the number of needless and tragic encounters that result in injuries and deaths to both citizens and police officers. 

Here in Detroit, a city that has been ravaged disproportionately by the coronavirus pandemic, we may feel strongly about the injustice of George Floyd’s murder. We may be tempted to believe that there have been far too many senseless deaths, and that it is vain to hope for a better world. But I urge you not to succumb to despair. As a black man, I have felt personally the sting of racism. Instead of feeling defeated by it, I have sought ways to stand up to it: by mentoring minority students, opening people’s eyes to the benefits of diversity, and devoting my career to researching and addressing health inequities around the globe. I do so because it helps others, and it gives me hope that our country will find a way to reckon with the urgent need for change in how we treat and support one another. Let’s model that change, each of us, by treating each other with love and respect.

Sincerely,





Letter from Chancellor Robinson: Racial Justice
WSSU News & Information

Dear Ram Family,

Against the backdrop of a global pandemic that is disproportionately impacting African Americans, we again find ourselves assailed with horrific images that remind us of the reality of racism in America. While the memories of Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor are still fresh, we experience the video of a white police officer kneeling on George Floyd's neck while Mr. Floyd gasps, "I can't breathe" as his life is snuffed out. We are once again reminded of James Baldwin's writing on the failure of human rights and social justice: "We have emptied oceans with homemade spoons and tore down mountains with our hands."

Black America is accustomed to institutional racism in its many facets; however, it can often seem as though our efforts to eradicate it have too little effect. While I don't condone violence as a means to an end, I do support our fellow citizens' right to peacefully protest the inequities and injustice in our society. The fury and grief that people are feeling speak to the institutionalized intolerance, discrimination, marginalization, and bigotry that have existed in this country—and our world—for centuries. 

But what must be our response to darkness? We must always move together toward the light. We must continue to say yes to life—and it is often found in terrible places like racist policies, beliefs, and practices; nevertheless, that is life. 

James Baldwin once again gives us a path forward: 

"For nothing is fixed, forever and forever and forever, it is not fixed; the earth is always shifting, the light is always changing, the sea does not cease to grind down rock. Generations do not cease to be born, and we are responsible to them because we are the only witness they have.

The sea rises, the light fails, lovers cling to each other, and children cling to us. The moment we cease to hold each other, the moment we break faith with one another, the sea engulfs us and the light goes out."

As I consider this national crisis, I am reminded of our university's rich history and its contributions to the advancement of social justice and equity in our society. Consider our motto: "Enter to Learn. Depart to Serve." Our service as members of the Ram Family can—and should—include helping to eradicate the cancer that is racism in America. As long as we keep the light shining on racism, we have a chance of eliminating it. But we have to stay vigilant, because it's always omnipresent. And we have to hold up one another. 

This journey toward a more enlightened America has been—and will continue to be—a rocky road. We must uplift one another, support one another, and advocate for one another in all spaces and places where we have a voice. We must find ways to protest peacefully, vote and run for office, and commit ourselves anew to the work we do at Winston-Salem State. Our students are the next generation of leaders; we need their energy and effort to carry the torch as we work toward peace, justice, and equality.

 Please know my heart is with you, Rams. Be safe. 

 Sincerely,

Elwood L. Robinson, Ph.D.

Tags: Chancellor
More News

Black lives matter.  We stand with those protesting the racist killing of George Floyd. Too many have been killed: Breonna Taylor, Ahmard Arbery, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice, Quanice Hayes, Aiyana Jones, Eric Garner, Stephon Clark, Sandra Bland, Kendra James, Trayvon Martin, and the list goes on. We stand with those protesting long-standing racial injustice. We are acutely aware that machine learning algorithms trained with data that embodies the racial and social injustices of today will perpetuate and amplify these injustices in the future. Already we have witnessed applications of ML in law enforcement, policing, hiring, healthcare, and education that replicate or amplify existing biases. Any technology that unintentionally or by design marginalizes, excludes, or harms Black communities is damaging and dangerous. We recognize the hard work done by fellow ML researchers to shine light on these ill-conceived applications, and call on the ML community at large to take accountability for the societal impacts and consequences that our technology has on society and the world. Women in Machine Learning (WiML) reaffirms our commitment to promoting diversity and increasing the awareness of women, particularly Black women, in machine learning. n this vein, we want to highlight some impactful groups working to support Black students, researchers, and professionals in machine learning and computer science more broadly: 
@black_in_ai @AJLUnited @BlackGirlsCode @Code2040 @Data4BlackLives @blkintechnology @NSBE If you’re looking for specific ways to support the Black Live Matter movement, check https://blacklivesmatters.carrd.co
If you are looking for information about policing in your local community, check
Campaign Zero https://joincampaignzero.org/solutions and Use of Force Project useofforceproject.org #BlackLivesMatter
Dear Wright State family,

It is not enough to say that Wright State University has an unwavering commitment to diversity and inclusion. I want to express our horror at the tragic and disturbing events that unfurled in Minneapolis this week. This is yet another painful reminder of the persistence of racial inequity and injustice in our country, and it only underscores our responsibility to stand together in solidarity against acts like this and to promote equity and inclusion.

As president of Wright State University, I understand the limitations of a message like this, because it comes at a time when many in our community are in pain and angry. At the same time, I hope you know that I stand with you in these challenging times.

I want to remind our campus community of resources that are available to assist you. I encourage anyone who needs it to reach out to these campus resources to provide you with support, compassion, and understanding.

Wright State students can seek confidential support services through Counseling and Wellness Services by calling 937-775-3407. You can call Raider Cares, a 24-hour crisis phone service, at 833-848-1765 (TTY: 314-485-4345). You also have access to a Crisis Text Line that offers 24-hour, seven-day per week text contact with trained crisis counselors, by texting "LISTEN" to 741-741.

Wright State's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides support services for all employees, regardless of benefit eligibility. EAP services are provided at no cost to employees, and include 24/7 telephone access to licensed and experienced counselors, as well as work/life balance services. Call 800-227-6007 or visit the Impact Solutions website at myimpactsolution.com. Use member username: wsufsap.

Diversity is one of our greatest strengths. Our diversity of thought, culture, background, and experiences fuel our community's ability to thrive in uncertain times, consider thought-provoking opinions without incident, and nurture one another when confronted by great challenges.

We will never fail when we face our challenges together. We stand together.

Sue

Dear Members of the Yale Community,

I write to you today deeply upset by the killing of George Floyd while he was in the custody of Minneapolis police officers. Mr. Floyd's death follows a pattern of racial injustice that has become too familiar in our country and that amounts to a national emergency.

At a time when the American community must come together more than ever before, George Floyd's horrifying death shocks our shared conscience and indicts our shared failure. It can and must remind us of other similar killings and of the racism, nativism, and bigotry too pervasive in society today and throughout our country's history.

Over the past week, I have been thinking about two seemingly incongruous things—our sense of community and one of our most basic emotions: fear.

Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, legitimate fear has been very much with us, but not just about the virus itself, and not among us equally. From reports of racism against people of Asian descent to the unacceptable disparities in health outcomes and health care, there was every reason for us to fear for the safety of our neighbors and family members, and of some, sadly, more than of others.

At the same time, I saw nurses, doctors, support staff, and volunteers act with courage, selflessness, and compassion in our home city and around the world. We nurtured a growing sense of community, which gave us the optimism and hope that must ever be a cornerstone of our beloved country. It is in the face of that noble expression of solidarity that George Floyd's death has shaken us and the shared spirit of heroism we have aroused to fight the pandemic.

As I read the news reports of Mr. Floyd's death and its explosive response, I knew that many members of our community feel fear in their daily lives because of the injustices they have experienced and witnessed, and I thought of how fear so reliably leads to anxiety, depression, health deterioration, and anger, and also to aggression and even violence. Some of the protests have turned destructive, undermining the plea for justice all Americans must share. Fear is powerful, damaging, and unpredictable in its effects.

I believe that all of us at Yale must do what we can to replace fear with hope—and not with anything less than action. Here I have been thinking much of the life of the extraordinary Pauli Murray, a lawyer, civil rights leader, and Yale Law School graduate. She experienced firsthand the cruelties of racial segregation and suffered injustices. She knew fear. However, she wrote in her memoir, "Seeing the relationship between my personal cause and the universal cause of freedom released me from a sense of isolation…I would be no less afraid to challenge the system of racial segregation, but the heightened significance of my cause would impel me to act in spite of my fears."

I have implored myself—and earnestly invite you to do the same— to make direct use of Pauli Murray's wisdom. Her words remind us of all that we have been able to accomplish together because of our shared commitment to the common good. Since mid-March, we have saved lives in this pandemic. We have isolated ourselves, changed the way we live, and sacrificed to safeguard the well-being of the most vulnerable among us and prevent our hospitals from becoming overwhelmed. It is vital to remember that we have been united in easing suffering, improving lives, and providing hope during a turbulent and challenging period of our history. If we can do this, we are capable, all of us, of creating the America we must insist belongs to us all.

In 1945, Pauli Murray wrote, "As an American I inherit the magnificent tradition of an endless march toward freedom and toward the dignity of all mankind." We have so much more to do to foster and sustain an equitable society. Instead of feeling the isolating effects of fear when our sense of community is shaken, we must remember that we are connected in more ways than we are divided. And that where we are divided, we must work, now, in the interest of unity and justice. This is a matter of the highest importance.

So, let us act as Pauli Murray would have us act toward those we know well but also those to whom we are connected simply by a common and powerful dream. I am grateful that you and I share Yale and its mission to improve the world today and for future generations. In looking forward to the work we have ahead of us, I wish you peace and strength.

With best wishes for your health and safety,

Peter Salovey
President
Chris Argyris Professor of Psychology
We are of our community – and our community is in pain. We cannot escape the problems of society – for we carry the successes and challenges of our community with us wherever we go. Left unchecked, racism, sexism, homophobia, and fear of the other can enter any organization or community – and destroy the foundations upon which we must build our future.

The past few harrowing days have laid bare how a lack of trust, respect, and leadership can tear at our social fabric. In these times, we must pull together and provide leadership in our own communities. Leadership is not about having all of the answers. It starts with unwavering principles that can steady us when the world seems unbalanced.

With all that is happening around us, let us recommit AAAS to these relevant principles:

    Diversity, equity, and inclusion along every axis are critical for our organization, the scientific enterprise, and our community to progress
    Ensuring lasting diversity, equity, and inclusion requires going beyond intervention to systemic change
    Systemic change begins with everyone feeling safe and respected
    Hatred, discrimination, and injustice have no place at AAAS, in science, or in our community

Let us recommit ourselves to these principles and rededicate ourselves to the mission of advancing science and serving society. Society needs us more than ever.

The coming weeks and months will bring further unprecedented challenges to us and our communities. What we do in this time will define us for a generation. In the face of national uncertainty, I am confident in this team’s ability to be a force for science, a force for good, and a support for one another. Our programs, publications, and advocacy are critical to a better and more just world. Your support makes each of these possible.

Nevertheless, a torrent of emotion has been unleashed in the last few days. It is understandable to feel anger, sadness, and helplessness. Many of us have been deeply impacted by these events. It is my hope that we come together as colleagues and friends to support one another. Science, scientists, and science advocates are going to be critical to ensuring we successfully navigate this troubled time together

"In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up — or go back."
ACM Stands with Those who promote inclusivity
In the United States, and throughout many regions around the world, current events have brought attention to the urgent need for equality and respect for all individuals. ACM reaffirms its commitment to fostering diversity and inclusion within the global computer science community.

As an international organization of nearly 100,000 professionals, ACM respects the essential worth of all people and firmly believes that diversity strengthens the scientific enterprise and society as a whole. ACM’s Code of Professional Ethics embodies these principles, and our Diversity and Inclusion Council works to translate them into effective action.

ACM is committed to creating an environment that welcomes new ideas and perspectives, and where hostility or other harmful behaviors are not tolerated. As an organization, we stand with those who promote inclusivity.


The AISES family shares in the pain and grief of the black community resulting from the murder of George Floyd and the long history of oppression and violence against their communities. As indigenous people, at AISES, we are guided by the traditional knowledge of our ancestors who have lived and died upon these lands since time immemorial. Among this knowledge is the deep understanding that "we are all related." It is this respect for relationships and community that guides AISES' programs and partnerships. For example, for several years now, AISES has been a part of the 50k Coalition alongside the National Society of Black Engineers, the Society of Women Engineers, and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers. Through partnerships like this, we have come to understand that our combined communities are stronger together. We have come to recognize that we are all working toward the same goals – diversity, equity, and inclusion for all communities and have learned that we can support one another through the adversity and challenges our communities face day in and day out. As such, today and every day, we stand with our black brothers and sisters in solidarity against the continued violence and systemic oppression of their communities. #blacklivesmatter

What do we tell our children, our students?
- Expressions from Alabama State University President, Dr. Quinton T. Ross Jr., on recent national events surrounding the death of George Floyd.
- By Dr. Quinton T. Ross Jr., President of Alabama State University.

"For the past few days, I, like many others have been viewing through the lens of the media, the reaction of our country to the deplorable and senseless death of yet another defenseless black person at the hands of a white police officer, a tragic mockery to the truth that Black Lives Matter. Similar to other Americans, I am overcome with a range of emotions.

As the father of two sons and as a black man myself, I can assure you that I am furious and deeply saddened by the death of George Floyd, as I am by every senseless killing of black males and females in America. It could have been either of my sons, my brothers, my nephews or nieces, my friends or even one of my students who lay on the ground, pleading for mercy on that horrific day. 

Looking into the eyes of my 11-year-old son and trying to help him comprehend what happened and what is happening in our nation, I am cognizant of the fact that I am old enough only to have read about the many civil rights protests and nonviolent demonstrations that have afforded me the opportunities that I have enjoyed during my lifetime.  While I was not an eyewitness to the protests, I do try to paint a picture for my son, drawing from my exposure to many civil rights icons and their recounting of historic events of the past, such as the Montgomery Bus Boycott, the march from Selma to Montgomery, the brutality of law enforcement officers such as Bull Connor and the story of Ruby Bridges. I am emotionally distraught about the stark parallel of our nation's present state of affairs and our nation's historical past.

I have been giving thought to this national crisis, especially as it relates to Alabama State University's rich history and her overwhelming contributions to the advancement of civil rights in the nation.  I am one of thousands of students who have matriculated and emerged from ASU with purpose and a true understanding of social justice and responsibility. At ASU, we learned the importance and the power of the vote.  The call to public service and advocacy was ingrained in our DNA by O' Mother Dear.

While I attempt to give some sensible explanation to the most recent senseless acts of brutality, I have reflected on my first real encounter with the reality of racist police violence against blacks in America.  It was the spring of 1991, just prior to my senior year in college, and I had just been elected President of the Student Government Association. This was the time that our nation witnessed Rodney King being brutally beaten by Los Angeles law enforcement officers after he led them on a high-speed chase.  I remember asking myself, "Is this what would happen to me as a black man if I found myself in a similar situation with authorities?" I vividly recall how the nation erupted into protests because of Rodney King's mistreatment, just like the protests that have erupted nationally because of the senseless death of George Floyd and others. Each incident is similar to the protests that happened across this nation in the 1960s due to social injustice.  As a young student, I was confused and enraged by what I witnessed. I remember the rumbling of unrest within our student body regarding Rodney King. We were all ready to act on our anger and frustration by taking to the streets of Montgomery to let our voices be heard.  Word of our intentions reached our President, the late Dr. C. C. Baker, who later became one of my mentors. My SGA leadership team and I were summoned to Dr. Baker's office, and it was there that I learned what social protesting was really all about. It is not about the destruction of property, looting or acting disorderly; it is about banding together peacefully with a common goal, with a purpose and a plan for change.  During the meeting, we discussed our desire to be heard and our passion for change, and emerged with a plan for a peaceful protest on the campus that historically has been a beacon for change—our home, our haven—Alabama State University.  This focusing event allowed me to lead my first press conference. It would be the first time I had ever spoken in front of news cameras. Every news outlet in the city was on campus that day as students gathered with community stakeholders in great numbers. I led the protest with a speech. Students and local elected officials were also able to have their voices heard as the media captured our impassioned sentiments and broadcast the event.  I share this personal experience not only to highlight the importance of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) in providing a platform for change, but also to emphasize the need to protest peacefully and with a purpose.

I offer that advice while understanding and even relating to the rage that has been unleashed across the nation by the infection of racism that is more potent than ever in America. Our nation has a new and improved infection of racism when George Floyd can plead for mercy while dying publicly under the force of a racist man's knee just as his forefathers died publicly hanging from a noose. There is a new and improved infection of racism when a young man by the name of Michael Brown can hold his hands up in surrender and still be shot to death in broad daylight in Ferguson, Missouri. There is a new and improved infection of racism when a man by the name of Eric Garner in New York City can tell authorities "I can't breathe"as he is choked to death.  The infection of racism is new and improved when a young man by the name of Trayvon Martin is gunned down in cold blood while walking from the store to his home. Racism is new and improved when Ahmaud Arbery can be gunned down while jogging not far from his home. There is a new and improved infection of racism when Breonna Taylor can be shot and killed by police officers as she lay sleeping in her apartment in Louisville, Kentucky. Let us not forget the infection of racism that related to the death of Sandra Bland, who was found hanged in a jail cell in Walker County, Texas, after being arrested for a minor traffic stop. Here in Montgomery, there is a new and improved infection of racism when a man by the name of Greg Gunn, who attended ASU, is chased and killed by a police officer just a few steps from his mother's front door. Their tragic deaths made headlines, but across this nation and even in this city, we could easily add more names to the rolls of those whose lives have been so tragically cut short with no cell phone cameras to capture their last, painful breaths.

With this in mind, we struggle with the question, "What should we tell our students?"The answer that I offer you is the same that I give to my sons. I ask that you find ways to protest peacefully, including exercising your personal responsibility to register to vote and then go vote, and committing yourself to continuing your education so that you are prepared to emerge as this nation's next generation of leaders. I ask that you resist the temptation to channel your anger into destruction; instead, channel your energy into the very thing that disturbs and disrupts those who would oppress you: Education.

Our nonviolent stand proved successful in the past, and I believe it could be the catalyst for real and impactful change today. Let peace be at the core of all of our actions.

While it seems as though remaining calm in the midst of a racist storm is a signal to be disrespected, disregarded and endangered, remember the lives that were lost to get us to this day. Remember the examples of those who were brutally beaten and rose up from that brutality to walk the halls of congress, to become mayors, governors, state legislators and community leaders. They are the ones upon whose shoulders we stand. Their sacrifices have afforded us the opportunity to stand and take up the mantle of peace, justice and equality for all. 

Stay in the fight against injustice my children and my students, with peace, purpose and a plan that saves us from self-destruction and allows us all to "breathe"freely."

News media contact: Kenneth Mullinax, 334-229-4104.



Our students, like Rondriquez White, who is also the co-founder of the Nashville Chapter of Black Lives Matter, are and always have been on the front lines of change in our country's history. As an organizer of this weekend's protest when asked about the extreme heat index by the media White says, "The temperature we face, the oppression that we face is even hotter."
As the U.S grapples with the murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbury and many other black men and women, it is during this painful time that we explicitly condemn racism and systematic oppression, and call for genuine change. We stand with the Black community and against anti-Blackness.
AnitaB.org was founded to increase the representation of women in in technology and ensure that women’s voices play a key role in shaping the future of the industry-and the extension of the world.
In the past, living mission-while created with the most progressive intentions- has sometimes fallen short of supporting every woman. Like many organizations’ histories, ours holds moments of erasure when it comes to uplifting Black people and women, the people who need it the most. We are working hard to live our values, both within our organization and as we work with our Partners to do the same.
We cannot allow this moment to pass us by and call our Partners to take action, including:
•        Increase your diversity. Hire Black people.
•        Contribute to the organizations that support the promotion of Black and other marginalized people.
•        Partner with public officials to change laws and policing to protect everyone.
•        Support protestors throughout the country by donating to bail funds.
The time is now to change our culture, create a more equal society and move forward together.
#BlackLivesMatter

So, here we are in 2020, painfully and acutely realizing that the long-held ideals of our nation, as embodied in the Constitution's aspirations of the right to equal justice, the right to pursue happiness and the right to individual liberty, are, in fact, unfairly and inequitably distributed across our society. This, of course, has been a reality since the founding of our Republic and, although we have made progress through our struggles and our changes, it is nonetheless jolting to see these inequalities manifested through the unfair treatment of individuals based on their race and ethnicity by the very government designed to protect and defend their rights as citizens.

The blatant abuse of power by the police as exhibited in the case of George Floyd, and many others, is in many ways akin to the actual abuses of power perpetrated against Americans in ways that led to the revolution against Great Britain. The very founding of our nation was a result of these mistreatments by the ruling government itself at the time.

Individuals have rights, the government must protect those rights, and the government must not be involved in injuring or diminishing those rights, particularly in its exertion of power towards its people.

The Constitution of the United States is perhaps the most important aspirational document ever written and codified by humans to govern themselves, particularly in the sense that it leaves very little to doubt about its goals of equality, justice, liberty, and the ability to pursue happiness by the individual as its purpose. That document, the Constitution, is in and of itself our collective aspirational goal, the society we wish we could be as a people. Can we find ways in all that we do, including policing, education, and social welfare, to meet the ideals of that Constitution and all that it stands for? The answer is no, unless we are willing to face our failings, call out our injustices, and drive towards the changes needed to achieve the common goals America was built to achieve.

In August 1963, on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King in his globally noted and socially profound "I Have A Dream"speech, outlined exactly this concept of aspiration. Dr. King used the "dream"concept to describe a world in the future in which the actual articulation of the aspirations of the Constitution could be realized in every person's life regardless of their race, ethnicity, religion, or social class. He did this with a level of eloquent intensity that set the stage for the pursuit of further attainment of the American constitutional aspirations. He knew the aspirations; he knew the intent of the words and the concepts; he knew the philosophies on which they were based and that they were substantial and powerful in terms of what is a human being; he knew the struggles that preceded in the evolution of the United States; and he knew the struggle that he was a part of as a leader of the Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s, which ultimately cost him his own life.

The key point here by Dr. King, and I think the key point of the Constitution itself, goes well beyond any interpretation of the Constitution by a particular sitting Supreme Court, for as we know many of those interpretations from the past would be found today to be appalling, but rather towards the idea of fighting for and driving toward and working toward our national aspirational goals, particularly of equality and justice.

We, the university community broadly and Arizona State University specifically, are, in fact, an aspirational institution and we have, in fact, been woefully inadequate, up to this point, in our own efforts to facilitate the means by which higher aspirational attainment might be achieved for these central goals to our society. This is particularly true as we have grown and diversified as a society.

At ASU, we have taken to heart the notion of designing and building the "New American University,"a university built on the notion of maximum social inclusion, maximum academic excellence, and maximum impact on serving our communities all from the same institution. In the last 15–20 years, Arizona State University students have become representative of the totality of the diversity of our society, and we have altered the functional way in which we operate to help bring about this "New America,"this aspirational attainment of our core values, as stated through the U.S. Constitution. But, even with that, we have been too slow in the concept of redesigning, reconceptualizing, restaffing, re-empowering and enabling the institutions that we, the university more broadly and ASU more specifically, have helped to design, create, staff, and assess. Our institutions are not living up to our hopes. They are not yet as capable as they need to be to reach our collective dream.

Why is it that we still have systems and institutions that can carry out and often justify injustices in the name of the people? Why is it that we have inadequate learning and empowerment opportunities in so many areas of our society? Why do we have police officers so inadequately trained that groups of them can stand by while a person is murdered in a public display of abuse of authority? Why do we not have enough new tools for enhancing the outcomes of our criminal justice system or enough new ideas and solutions about how to address drug addiction and other powerfully negative forces at work in our society? Why have universities become increasingly elitist organizations drawing only from the cream of the cream of our society or from families producing "learning elites"from significant amounts of personal wealth and personal networks? These and many other questions are questions that we can and should not only address but attack and begin to resolve.

But, in spite of all of our efforts, we still have insufficient ideas for social transformation where it might make the most positive difference in terms of accelerating the rate of change and accelerating the rate of enhanced social justice and accelerating the rate of enhanced pursuit of happiness across as much of our society as is possible. We need to do more.

To do more, I am asking our deans and faculty and students of all of our ASU colleges to outline new initiatives, new programs, and new designs that we can initiate with our own resources and then pursue additional partners in creating and deploying new solutions. Our Watts College of Public Service and Community Solutions, our Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law, our School of Social Transformation, our Mary Lou Fulton Teachers College, and other critical ASU academic communities can outline new efforts, new concepts, and new strategies to devise new models for protecting and defending the rights of individuals; new methods, new concepts, and new tools for policing; models for justice and the law that are, in fact, implementable throughout the process and not only after injustices have occurred.

All of our schools and all of our programs, as well as all of our faculty, can engage in this process of new ideas, new designs, and new concepts, while we, as Arizona State University, continue to strive towards our aspirational goal of being the highest quality, highest performing, most egalitarian university operating across the breadth of our society that we possibly can be.

To do this, I am asking that the deans engage in a college-by-college process and that the student leaders also engage in a process for specific new initiatives that we can undertake. I would like to be able to review these aspirational attainment ideas before the opening of the fall semester so that we might get some new energy focused here as faculty and students reassemble.

If, in the interim, there are immediate ideas or immediate actions, get those to me straightaway.

My hope is that we can take a good hard look at our own intellectual underpinnings here and ask ourselves, "are there things that we can do differently or designs that we can produce or teaching and learning that we can alter that can help produce new and better aspirational attainment for the goals of our country?"

I look forward to our moving forward as soon as possible with new efforts. 


We are the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE). We take each of those words and our collective identity very seriously.
We're American. We recall that this nation was born in rebellion to oppressive tyranny and that no oppressor has ever gladly surrendered his position. We're American. We know that nativism has never been our strength; rather we have embraced the world and taken our strength from all the peoples of the world, including those who were already here.
We are a Society. We are a community of shared interests and purposes. Prominent among our shared interests is diversity, equity, and inclusion. We have spoken out forcefully in this regard time and time again including our February 1, 2017 statement on the US President's executive orders on immigration.
We are Engineers. We understand that diversity, equity, and inclusion are essential to the quality of what engineers produce. It's not a "nice to have"—it is essential. Circumstances or actions that impede diversity, equity, and inclusion are inimical to good engineering practice.
We are Educators. Whether we stand in research labs, classrooms, factory floors, or boardrooms, we seek to enlighten others to what we know and what we are learning. We seek to facilitate opportunities for all to learn to the best of their abilities, and to hold ourselves accountable for the quality of our facilitation. We recognize historical and systemic inequities in opportunities and preparation to learn and seek to ensure equitable access and success in education.
The murder of Mr. George Floyd, like that of so many others before him, was a heinous act. But it was not a singular act, or an isolated act. It was part of a pervasive pattern and practice of learned, ingrained, and automatic behaviors that have and will require persistent, consistent, and resistant action to limit and eventually reverse.
We recognize our limitations, but believe that by working together as ASEE members and in collaboration with others, we can contribute to advancing and sustaining the deep and wide change that will be necessary for this nation to begin to achieve the aspirational words that are the preamble to the US Constitution – . . . forming a more perfect Union, establishing Justice, insuring domestic Tranquility, . . . promoting the general Welfare, and securing the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity . . .
Our nation is hurting. For the last few months, we have hurt physically, financially and otherwise from the coronavirus. Now, recent events of racial injustice are hurting us in many ways that words often find inadequate to fully express.

While we acknowledge the painful reality that prejudice and bigotry exist, we stand resolute that they have no place in the Auburn Family. As an institution that values and embraces each individual, we oppose hate and exclusion and acts that promote them.

It was on my heart to reaffirm Auburn’s values. I’m confident that we, together, will work toward change and healing.

To the families, friends and loved ones of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery, we extend our deepest sympathy. Our hearts ache for both the nation we have worked to make more just and equitable and for the city we love and call home. Through our grief for the countless known and unknown victims of systematic racism, we continue to pray that we can use this moment to shine light in our communities. This is not the moment to fall into despair. The world needs our leadership and love. As our forefathers and mothers from the Atlanta Student Movement, the larger Civil Rights Movement, and every struggle for justice in America have shown us, we accomplish great things when we act in solidarity with those who fight for freedom and push America to live up to its promise.

For well over a century, the institutions of the Atlanta University Center have worked to use the light of knowledge to guide the nation out of dark times. The very existence of Clark Atlanta University, Morehouse College, Morehouse School of Medicine, and Spelman College is a form of protest in itself—a recognition that education can illuminate the path to justice and equality and a demand that it be available to the sons and daughters of the diaspora. While we are proud of the leaders in every field our institutions have sent forth into the workforce, we are even prouder of their preparation to carry forward the hard work of making the world better through ideas, innovation, creativity, courage, and determination.

What can we do, individually and as the AUC community? What is the way forward? What are the difficult conversations we need to have and with whom? What are the action plans we need to craft? These are the challenges in the days and weeks ahead. Together, we must continue to thoughtfully engage in the hard work of creating positive change in our communities and across our nation.




I write when I am bothered...I am bothered tonight.
All day, I have watched social media and news with horror as protests borne out of an act of racial violence – the murder of George Floyd - turned to violent demonstrations and even riots. As an African American I fully understand the hurt, anger and utter frustration that drives us to this point. The psychological trauma inflicted on African Americans every time a black life is cut short unnecessarily by a uniformed officer, cannot be understated, nor can it be dismissed. However, we must govern ourselves strategically and with discipline. We are strong, resilient, committed and brilliant. We must organize, plan and use our collective voices to bring about the change we seek.

I am asking you to do three (3) things:

1) Control Your Coins - Consistent, sustained economic pressure. We must stop spending and investing our money into businesses that do not respect and appreciate our buying power. Do not shop in stores where you are followed, ignored or treated rudely. We must never reward ignorance or disrespect. Today we have seen individuals post cruel and racist statements, jokes and pictures. Take note of where those people work. Report them and refuse to support the businesses that employ them.

2) VOTE. NEVER allow an election to occur without casting your VOTE. Educate yourself on the issues that impact our communities and vote out prosecutors and other elected officials who turn a deaf ear on the needs of our people. Attend candidate forums, write letters, attend meetings, volunteer and yes, donate to the campaigns of the candidates you believe in. History has demonstrated that we are a powerful voting block and when we show up!

For many Americans, and for Black Americans in particular, the very soul of the nation seems in peril at the moment. 
The horrific murder of George Floyd, captured in all its public, brutal clarity, serves as a stark reminder of the divergences between the highest ideals of our society as posited by our founders and the stark, 400-year reality for black, brown and native Americans.  It is also a reminder of the fragility of the very lives of black people, including the life of Breonna Taylor, when intertwined with the nation’s criminal justice system. It begs the question: Why is this still happening?
At the same time, we reel from the disproportionate impacts on our community of COVID-19. The higher percentage of death and sickness is overwhelming. The accompanying, record-setting unemployment and economic hardship serve as a painful reminder of just some of the profound and enduring inequities in our society.

There is a great deal of pain. The protests around the country are manifestations of a cumulative national despair.  There is a well-earned weariness here – our community and those who support it have a right to be tired, frustrated and angry.  At the same time, the protests reflect a determination to make positive change, no matter the fatigue.   As our esteemed founder, Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune, teaches us, we must be resilient. We must be energetic in not accepting the status quo, and in not letting it deprive us of our future.  We can define society up.      
And with those protests, we condemn the violence and looting of the few and celebrate the voice of the many. We hold ourselves to a higher standard. We are also watchful of the reaction of authorities and our leaders—who themselves should be held to the same high standard.
We are reminded that great institutions like B-CU, born of trauma, poverty and racism, are very much on the front lines of enabling America to fulfill its highest aims and aspirations. B-CU and other HBCUs serve as both the mirror to and the conscience of the American ideal. The role our institutions assume in serving and healing America—and the role our amazing students will assume as future leaders—has never been more critical or evident.   
At B-CU, we serve students by intentionally exposing them to ideas and experiences that will enable them to discern between what is right and what is easy, and to recognize that with the education they receive, comes a responsibility to a greater good.  B-CU fulfills its mission, in part, by bridging the gap between talent and ability, and access and opportunity.  We serve this nation through harnessing the inextricable linkages – the shared existence – that many of us hold with the communities in which our institutions were born.  For B-CU, that happens to be the former city dump, Hell’s Hole, which was the only land available to our founder. Through determination, faith and a legacy of love she transformed it into our beautiful, enduring university campus.      
In the midst of our collective national trauma, B-CU will continue to live the ideals of its founder.  We will unconditionally love and support our students and one another.  We will do what we have always done – we will rise, support one another and we will affirm the very best of who we are and have always been as a community.   



The unrest following the abhorrent viral video of George Floyd’s murder has led many of us to have real conversations with our children and families about the ugly reality of racism in America; leaving a sense of hopelessness.

How can we tell our girls (and boys) they have the capability to become the next tech CEO and in the same breath detail precautions to take when encountering individuals who are supposed to protect and serve? How can we encourage our girls to show up in society as their authentic selves when we bear witness to countless incidents that illustrate the disregard for Black humanity? How do we tell our girls there are no limits on their dreams when even in the year 2020 racial barriers continue to pervade our daily lives? There is no specific code for how to handle these traumatic incidents when they arise, but we know it starts with being intentional about keeping our children informed, empowered, and hopeful.

At Black Girls CODE, the core of our mission is to empower young women of color between the ages of 7–17 to embrace the current tech marketplace as builders and creators by introducing them to skills in computer programming and technology. Yet the foundation of our work is about so much more than just teaching our girls to write a line of code. The focus of our work is centered on teaching our girls to embrace self-actualization, self-confidence, and self efficacy; we uplift racial justice and equity so that our girls can not only survive but thrive within spaces in the fullness of their unique selves.

We must not let these incidents diminish their sense of pride, but rather use them as fuel to face these obstacles head-on, go further, reach higher and rise. Staying true to the vision of creating brighter futures for our girls, our organization will be here to support our community through this difficult time and for every step on the journey towards healing. We want to express our gratitude to those who have rallied around BGC and have made contributions to ensure we can continue to do meaningful work, especially amid uncertain times.

At times like these we are even more assured that our work is timely and relevant. We will push on together to create space for a better world for our girls, their families, and the beloved community.
Blackcomputerher:
To our community: we are with you, and we are here for you. We are also working on new programming to support you and keep us connected. We'll share more soon, but in the meantime, stay safe and take care of yourselves. 

The Bluefield State College community is united in mourning the tragic and senseless death of George Floyd. Each of us should be deeply saddened by the hate that was expressed by this terrible act. The late Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. said, "We must learn to live together as brothers or we will perish together as fools." Racial discrimination cannot be tolerated in America. Bluefield State is a Historically Black College that serves a population that is diverse, but we are a community where each member must passionately embrace the belief that people of color cannot continue to suffer because of racism. We MUST resolve to love our brother, because hatred can destroy us all. The journey forward can only be made with heartfelt, lifelong, commitment to love, to forgive and to ask for forgiveness, and to listen and learn. We lift up our collective prayers for Mr. Floyd and his family, for the African American community- both locally and nationally- and for each other. The journey will be challenging, but it can also be infinitely rewarding. As Dr. King noted, "You don't have to see the whole staircase, just take the first step." -President, Robin Capehart, Bluefield State College
In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic and our efforts to restore campus operations, our nation has been rocked by acts of violence and ensuing unrest and disruption that have now occurred here in Boston. We are confronted, once again, by the grim reality of systemic racism in our country. The killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and others bring to the forefront these abhorrent elements in our society. At a time when we rely on our police more than ever, we watch painful examples of some officers breaking the public trust in the most egregious ways. These injustices are amplified by the vividly disparate impact of COVID-19 on African Americans in particular, as well as on other ethnic or minority communities.

We grieve for our country and those who are affected by systemic racism, just as we grieve for those afflicted by COVID-19. We will defeat COVID-19 using science and our collective will. We must commit the same will and energy to defeat systemic racism. We must reject the forces in our society that are driving us apart and commit ourselves to creating a just society.

In the current troubled climate, I believe our commitment to restoring our residential campus is made all the more important by the divisions in our country. We are working nonstop to restore campus operations for the fall and will shortly make more detailed announcements about this effort. This is critical because our residential community brings together students from every background to live and learn together, with our faculty, in an atmosphere that promotes mutual understanding and respect. And we are continually working to do this better for all members of the Boston University community. As I write you today, I recall the two months last spring when we witnessed the uniting effect on our community of the expanded Howard Thurman Center for Common Ground, before campus life was abruptly interrupted by the virus. Our return to our residential campus and our personal interactions with one another that are not mediated by a computer screen is essential to the critical work we must undertake to build a campus, a community, and a society that is free from systemic racism.

When we return to Commonwealth Avenue, life on campus will not look or be the same as it was last fall, but we can create a learning community that preserves Boston University as a beacon for the country and world. Such beacons are desperately needed in our country today. I look forward to welcoming you back to campus.
The tragic events unfolding in Minneapolis are yet another reminder that systemic discrimination and violence against African Americans still plague our society.

Since its founding, our Bowie State University community has stood for the inclusion of diverse cultures and voices, and has wholeheartedly condemned acts of violence and incivility. I am deeply troubled by the tragic death of another African American male, George Floyd, in Minneapolis and the rioting that is occurring in response.

We must not let this tragedy go unnoticed. I encourage the BSU community to continue listening to the voices of people of all races that are crying out for change. While I am disheartened by the events in Minneapolis, I know we are stronger when we stand together and use our voices for what we know is right and just for all.



George Floyd's killing was cruel, inhumane, and contemptible. The injustice of violence against black people must stop.

The history of our great university is intertwined with the pursuit of justice. Brandeis was created in response to antisemitism and bigotry. We cannot tolerate discrimination, hatred, or violence against another person based on their race, religion, or background. These values are as important today as they were at our founding.

These are not just words or noble ideas. These are principles that inspire us at Brandeis to educate, to learn, and to act.

With that in mind, I join with Mark Brimhall-Vargas, chief diversity officer, in calling for us to come together, even if virtually. In the message Mark sent on Friday, he mentioned two different events happening this week. The Heller School is hosting a conference, "Co-Constructing Racial Justice through Life and Work."And Mark will host "Coming Together to Face Systemic Racism."I hope you will join me in attending both.

As Brandeisians, not all of our experiences are shared ones. We come from different backgrounds and have different perspectives. But I know that there are some things we have in common. This includes an unwavering commitment to justice, equity, and inclusion. It includes respecting other people, no matter their background.

I hope to see you at one of the events tomorrow or the next day. Let us come together to express our commitment to ending racist violence.
We write to you today as leaders of this university to express first deep sadness, but also anger, regarding the racist incidents that continue to cut short the lives of black people every day.

The sadness comes from knowing that this is not a mere moment for our country. This is historical, lasting and persistent. Structures of power, deep-rooted histories of oppression, as well as prejudice, outright bigotry and hate, directly and personally affect the lives of millions of people in this nation every minute and every hour. Black people continue to live in fear for themselves, their children and their communities, at times in fear of the very systems and structures that are supposed to be in place to ensure safety and justice.

The anger comes from knowing that we have been here before, and in fact have never left. Rallies and protests across the country are raising voices about ongoing injustice in the wake of the killings of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, Breonna Taylor in Louisville, KY, and George Floyd in Minneapolis. As a nation, we might have thought there would be some real change after the deaths of Freddie Gray and Sandra Bland, both who died in police custody in 2015, a year in which some justice organizations reported more than 100 police shootings of unarmed black people in the United States. And this was after our nation mourned and protested the ongoing epidemic of racism with the 2014 deaths of Michael Brown, Eric Garner, Tamir Rice and countless others before and after that year.

All of these deaths "launched national conversations"about anti-black racism. And we know that so many in our community keep asking how many times these conversations have to happen before there is real change. We know there are so many in our community hurting and deeply frustrated, and things are made worse by a pandemic that doesn't allow us to be together and is disproportionately killing black people. We have not been able to gather in some of the ways that usually unite us to build collective understanding, mourn and make calls for action.

We hope that wherever you may be, you seek to effect change in your communities in the ways that make sense for you while preserving your health and safety in this time of COVID-19. And this does not apply only to members of our community residing in the United States. Tragic and traumatic examples of injustice against racial, ethnic and religious minorities persist around the world, resulting in horrific instances of brutality, incarceration and death. Our local and national government leaders need to hear from us as individual constituents in their communities consistently and persistently on issues of racial and ethnic injustice.

As a university, we have tremendous resources in our departments, centers and institutes that can help our community and our society interrogate the persistent and deeply disturbing issues related to race, racism and police violence in America. In the weeks and months to come, we will leverage the expertise of our faculty, staff and students to develop programming, courses and research opportunities designed to advance knowledge and promote essential change in policy and practice in the name of equity and justice.

We are a community that does not condone acts of racism, discrimination or violence. This cannot be accepted as "normal."We must continue to demand equity and justice for all people, inclusive of all identities. And we must continue to care for and support each other, especially in this time when we are apart.
George Floyd was killed last week by someone sworn to protect him – someone sworn to protect all of us and the liberties we enjoy. It was evil and ugly. And as Mr. Floyd begged to be allowed to breathe, other officers stood by and did nothing. 
Over the past week, I've been reflecting, like a lot of Americans. What should we do – and what should I do – in the face of evil? Americans are understandably very angry, and some have chosen to protest. The right to protest is among our most cherished freedoms, and I respect all who do so nonviolently.
Over the last few days, I have met with small groups of UTEP students, faculty, staff and alumni. I talked to them about their experiences at UTEP and in El Paso to learn if there were concerns about racism on our campus, and particularly in our campus police force.
I was pleased that, generally, people feel safe here, and they don't think that there is a problem in the UTEP police force. "El Paso is different,"several told me. Still, many feel like "a minority in a minority"and "sometimes invisible."Not all of our students know where to go or what to do if they have a problem, and many of them had ideas about how to make things better.     
It's up to all of us to ensure our country lives up to the ideals of a free and equal society, and there will be much that we will need to do in the coming months – as individuals and as a campus community. 
To begin with, I will be asking our Student Government Association, our Faculty Senate, and our Staff Council to recommend campus colleagues who will work with our Chief of Police to review our policies, procedures, practices and training so that we continue to build trust between the UTEP Police Department and those whom they are sworn to protect. Good organizations always try to be better.
UTEP has a proud legacy of breaking down barriers, as music professor Engebret Thormodsgaard did in 1956 when he cast 20-year-old Bernice Bell to play the heroine opposite a white man in an opera production staged in Magoffin Auditorium; and as Don Haskins and our men's basketball team did in 1966 at the NCAA national championship, forever changing college athletics in this country. UTEP was the first baccalaureate institution in Texas to desegregate; we have a legacy of creating opportunities for those historically underserved by higher education in America, with a student body that is over 90% minority in a top tier research university. 
UTEP will remain true to our legacy by doing good in the face of evil.

Even as our nation struggles to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to bear witness to the reality that systemic racism and injustice pervade our society. The deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery are but the latest examples of violent and dehumanizing acts of racism across the country. I am heartbroken and outraged by these tragedies, and I know that the CMU community around the world shares my concern for the victims’ families, and for those in our community who are most impacted by these hateful acts. Please know that we see you, we care about you and we are here for you. While I recognize I cannot fully understand the pain, anxiety and fear these events inflict on Black and African Americans, including many in our own community, I know that it is up to each one of us – no matter our background – to confront and dismantle racism and injustice wherever they exist.

At times like this we must reflect on what we can do to make society, including our own community, more just. It would be inadequate to restate our commitment to respect, value, and foster diversity, equity and inclusion across our community. We know we have much work to do to live out these values at Carnegie Mellon. Learning about each other’s lived experiences; engaging with and supporting colleagues; challenging injustice when we witness it; and, especially, actively listening to each other will truly help us build the campus climate we seek.

Uniting in the face of challenging times is the Carnegie Mellon way. Acts of solidarity at The Fence, community discussions and listening sessions have helped us all grieve and heal together. Although we cannot gather in traditional ways, we will be working in the days and weeks ahead to curate virtual opportunities to consider actions we as a community can take to be the change we wish to see in the world. In the meantime, we ask our entire community to come together, with humility, compassion and empathy, to support one another, including those who are feeling especially vulnerable now.

With great respect for you and every member of our community,

Six years later, the words are the same.

I can't breathe.

After all of the mourning and protests, the lawsuits and training, the promises made and lessons learned, nothing, it seems, has changed.

Lying on a Staten Island sidewalk in the summer of 2014, Eric Garner said "I can't breathe"nearly a dozen times as a police officer's arm stayed tight around his throat.

Last Monday in Minneapolis, George Floyd repeated the same phrase—in his case, with an officer's knee pressing into his neck.

The local protests that followed have spread across the country, reaching Cleveland on Saturday. Ours opened peacefully, but devolved soon after marchers reached the Justice Center a few blocks away. Protesters pitched water bottles and spray-painted walls, officers released tear gas canisters, and before long, police cars were engulfed in flames.

Today protests continued in communities nationwide—and even extended to London and Berlin. In Cleveland, meanwhile, officials announced a noon curfew for downtown to allow time for clean-up of streets and stores.

But what about the systemic racism cited so often in recent days? How can a city, a country, "clean up"that?

We cannot—should not—ever try to wipe away the past.

We need to know it. Own it. And commit to forging a better future.

Four months after Eric Garner died in 2014, Tamir Rice was shot and killed by police while playing with a toy gun outside a Cleveland recreation center.

He was 12 years old.

The following year, the city accepted a 110-page settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice. The document required sweeping reforms to address the department's record of excessive force and urgent need to restore community trust.

The monitoring team's most recent report, issued in September, found force incidents fell by nearly a third compared to 2017.

That team, including deputy monitor Ayesha Bell Hardaway of our law school, still found shortcomings, in particular in terms of resources for training and data systems. Nevertheless, the group concluded the department had made "substantial progress."

While the medical examiner ruled Garner's death a homicide, the officer who choked him never faced charges. Nor did the one who killed Tamir. On Friday, Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin was arrested and charged with third-degree murder. He appears in court tomorrow.

Small steps, true. But in a moment of so much anger… and pain… and sorrow, they matter.

In the often-quoted words of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. "…the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."

As an institution of higher learning, we have a profound responsibility to the future. When it comes to this moment, how can we best begin to fulfill it?

This week, we will provide opportunities to engage, and share resources for those who would like support. Tonight, though, we want to remind you of a part of our legacy: The first Commencement address Frederick Douglass ever gave came at Western Reserve College in 1854.

"The relation subsisting between the white and black people of this country is the vital question of the age,"he told some 3,000 in attendance. "In the solution of this question, the scholars of America will have to take an important… part."




As we navigate these unprecedented times, we are now forced to deal with a series of tragic events. The unconscionable deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery were unnecessary incidents that have drawn national and international attention. Many people realize that this can and should be the moment to move America forward — into an era of social and economic justice, equity, and stability. We, as a nation, must do better.

Representing the two oldest Historically Black Colleges and Universities in our nation — Cheyney University of Pennsylvania and Lincoln University of Pennsylvania — we stand together against racial injustice. America's HBCUs are in a unique position to be at the forefront of this effort. Our institutions exist because there was a time when universities did not accept African Americans into the ranks of their student population, so we created our own. Now, more than ever, our vision and our voices must be heard.

We call on our students to focus their energy on bringing constructive change to the society in which we live. We ask them to use the modern technology and resources that previous generations did not have as the means to adapt, to overcome inequities and to change our communities for the better. Most importantly, we want our students to stay safe at all times, whether they decide to express their voices at home or in person at peaceful demonstrations.

We are reminded of the words of two prominent alumni of our storied institutions. They are just as relevant today as when they were first spoken and penned:

"…We do solemnly pledge ourselves to assist by our means any suit brought against the perpetrators of outrages…"

– Octavius V. Catto, Cheyney University, Class of 1858

"O, let my land be a land where Liberty
Is crowned with no false patriotic wreath,
But opportunity is real, and life is free,
Equality is in the air we breathe."

– Langston Hughes, Lincoln University, Class of 1929

We are in challenging times that require unity and a sense of purpose. Cheyney University and Lincoln University stand united in the fight for social justice.

Regrettably, African Americans are continuing to be targeted across our great nation. The Claflin University community calls for prayers for the family of George Floyd and all other victims of reported aggression by law enforcement against African Americans and people of color.
After the protests have ended, America must find ways to heal by restoring "Peace with Justice." The work will be hard, but through transformative education, unity, and a true commitment for a changed nation we can move forward.
Corrective action strategies must reflect immediate tools for corrective systemic and cultural change. Only through transformative education, is it possible for shifts in both behavior and mindsets to occur toward more positive humanistic outcomes.
In essence, a cultural shift must occur throughout all of society, especially police precincts, court systems, and prosecutors. Society can no longer tolerate:
•        Treatment of African Americans as second-class citizens.
•        Hasty and unjustified judgment based on the color of one's skin.
•        Excessive harm and brutality to African Americans by law enforcement officers
•        Education and more effective training of law enforcement officers are needed within training academies, and all systems governing the safety of our nation's citizens. African Americans must cease to be marginalized, brutalized and/or murdered by justice systems based on ethnicity.
The pathways for transformation in thinking and shifts in mindsets against such brutality is at the heart of Claflin University's new Center for Social Justice. Our Center will work across disciplines, communities, and demographics, to be a game changer regionally, nationally, and internationally. Our Center, though its programming, will foster collaborations and greater understanding of social justice issues throughout the region and beyond.

Claflin University, the first historically black college and university in South Carolina, is the place where the lives of young African Americans have been shaped for the future for more than 150 years. As such, we see it as our role and mission to be the place to re-shape systems and faulty mindsets that continue to marginalize and bring harm to these future leaders. We desire to be the catalyst for:
•        Helping justice workers around the nation learn how to embrace diversity.
•        Restoring "Peace with Justice."
•        Reducing violence against African Americans.
Our response to the continued violence against African Americans indicates a need for immediate cultural shifts in how African Americans are treated by reported "peacekeepers" around the nation. While many law enforcement officers are performing their duty with dignity and respect toward the public, there still remain too many others who abuse their roles. African Americans are dying and suffering at the hands of many law enforcement officers due to systemic racism and faulty underlying psycho-cultural assimilated orientations of race. While the current protests highlight this crisis, a real solution involves immediate and systemic change in both the mindset and behaviors of everyone involved in all areas of law enforcement and the criminal justice system, past and present.
The Center for Social Justice will provide a platform for our mission to lead a national movement of change. The following is a list of the Center's upcoming projects and activities that will affirm our leadership in this national movement.
1. Day of Reflection Vigil in memory of George Floyd and other recent victims of reported aggression by law enforcement against African Americans and people of color. This vigil, scheduled for June 19, will be a virtual event given the accelerated numbers of COVID-19 across the U.S., the increased risk of African Americans contracting COVID-19, and the number of people across the U.S. and the world who will join our prayer vigil.
2. Transformative action within the highest levels of government. Claflin University is calling on the U.S Department of Justice to partner with us to change the systemic violence towards African Americans throughout this country.
3. Transformative action with partners around the nation. Claflin University will convene the first National Summit for ending violence against African Americans. The Summit will unveil the infusion of anti-racist training resources to adequately support the training and empowerment of all levels of people involved in law enforcement across the country (developed by Claflin University) to confront both conscious and unconscious marginalizing views of minority groups. Representatives from various law enforcement agencies across the nation; HBCUs; UNCF; NAACP; local, state, and national representatives; and other local and national community groups will participate.
4. Annual training and certification programs will be offered to employees at all levels of law enforcement and the criminal justice system through our Center. The focus will be on cultural competencies, urban/rural policing, emotional intelligence and race relations.
5. The development of a "Peace with Justice Covenantal Statement" to be signed by all law enforcement officers prior to beginning service at their respective agencies.
6. The development of agreed upon actions to be taken by both African Americans and law enforcement in the event, for example, behavior after a traffic stop by law enforcement officers.
7. The development of a "Bill of Rights" for African Americans who feel they are being targeted because of their race which will carry a review by boards governing all areas of law enforcement.
Through these initiatives coordinated through the Center of Social Justice, Claflin University will remain at the forefront in the struggle for social justice, economic empowerment, and political equality.


Over the past several days, Clarkson University has joined the nation in grieving the death of George Floyd. The subsequent protests are more than just a response to an isolated incident. Change is necessary.
Clarkson’s core values call us to work towards addressing deep-rooted issues of racial inequality at the heart of these events. We must do so both locally and nationally through intentional actions and with respect to the dignity of our community members.
To our students, employees and alumni who are hurting, we offer our support and our resources.
For those who want to do something to make a difference,  by using our individual and collective voices participate in our Community Meeting on Thursday, June 4 at 7pm Eastern time
connect to the Clarkson community members below and reach out to your elected officials (https://usa.gov/elected-officials) to share the change you want.
I, like many others, am deeply saddened by recent tragic events nationwide and the deep divisions that still threaten our ability to move ahead as one nation.

Let there be no doubt: Racism, injustice, violence, brutality and hatred, in any form, cannot be tolerated.

Amid the turbulent times of 2020, we find our Clemson family physically apart due to COVID-19. Still, we can and should reach out to those in our family who are hurting or in need.

We also can put into practice our Clemson values: We value the rights of others. We are respectful of each other and our individual differences, beliefs and ideas. We actively listen and communicate. We seek to understand one another’s challenges, and are tolerant and forgiving.  And, we come from diverse backgrounds that make up one inclusive Clemson Family.

Our work is not only in the moment, but it also lies in the daily development of our University community, as we work to ensure that everyone feels welcome and valued as a part of this Clemson Family.

As we continue to prepare our campus for the return of our full community this fall, we must keep working to repair the world every day, step by step, to make Clemson and our world a better place for us all.

We can, and must, do better if we are to build a truly inclusive Clemson community. That work has never been more important than it is right now.

My entire leadership team and I are committed to continued progress in this area. Should anyone have ideas they would like to share with us, I encourage you to reach out to us at UnitedClemson@clemson.edu.


It pains us to see racism grip our nation and cause suffering in Black communities. This must stop.
Code.org stands together with the black community- our employees, partners, teachers, and their students-in the fight against the systemic inequity, racism, and injustice in the United States.

I have been contemplating the role of a university, especially in times of great crisis, this last week of May 2020 when the right words are so hard to come by. At William & Mary, one important role is continually to call ourselves to awareness of our history, in the present. As the great American writer James Baldwin taught us, "not everything that is faced can be changed, but nothing can be changed until it is faced."

None of us can ignore the turmoil, the heartbreak, of the racial divisions in our country — a cascade of grief for Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd has brought it to the fore. The racism and injustice we continue to witness bring grievous hurt to our communities. It comes to us at a moment when so many in this nation and the world are vulnerable, intensifying the loss and weariness of pandemic. We are facing again the legacy of our country's founding, that did not recognize the full humanity of all peoples. African Americans in our communities are asking, in this moment, do you recognize my full humanity? We do. We will face this with you.

A critical role of a university at moments of crisis is to rededicate ourselves to the propositions that sustain a pluralistic democracy. We recognize that we are still far from realizing them for all: fairness, respect for the human dignity of others, evidence-based argument, scientific discovery, the pursuit of opportunity and safety and equal justice under the law.

As a public university in Virginia, dedicated to the perpetuity of democratic institutions, it has never been more important that we commit ourselves to change that advances these values. We must find it within ourselves to look for hope. And as we face unspeakable acts, we must be there to help lift one another's heavy hearts — so we can study together, learn and work together, toward a more humane and free world. The past week's events demonstrate how much farther we have to go.

As we search for paths forward during these uncertain times, the role of a university provides some clarity and William & Mary's core values of belonging, respect and integrity provide direction. The diverse communities and perspectives we convene — to grapple with our imperfections and our legacies of inequality — are our best hope for empowering those who study here to build our future together.
Dear Mines Community,
For the past week, the news has been dominated by the tragic death of George Floyd and the ensuing protests, civil unrest and destruction. It has been difficult to watch and to process—the wrongness of the death, the intense anger and emotion of the protestors and the widely varying responses of our elected leaders.
Events like this and others over the past few years force us to face the uncomfortable reality that racism and bias are prevalent and persistent. They also provide the impetus for us, as individuals and the Mines community, to reflect on who we are, what we stand for and what we should do going forward.
We are a caring community that has embraced and is working toward achieving the aspirations expressed in our strategic plan for diversity, inclusion and access. We naturally feel for victims of racism and bias, we hurt when members of our community are hurt and we have pledged to create a community that supports the education and careers of students, staff and faculty from all backgrounds.
Our Achilles heel is that many of us do not understand with depth the issues at play today. Most of us do not come from backgrounds where we have had to endure racism—either based on the color of our skin or our country of origin. This can make us blind to our biases and unable to see the actions we need to take to support the success of all members of our community. How many of us can imagine being raised with a deep-seated fear of law enforcement personnel or being concerned for our life when going out for a run? That is reality for some members of our community.
In response to current events, we wanted to do something more than just issue a campus note that expresses outrage or rejects persistent and systemic racism and promises a better future. We decided instead to use this opportunity to challenge ourselves as campus leaders and all of you as community members to learn how to be more effective advocates and allies for those who experience racism and to develop a deeper understanding of the law enforcement community.
Our Mines DI&A team will follow up with our plan for the former—they already have a list of resources for you to learn more, ways for us to take meaningful action and opportunities for new campus programming. Our Mines Police Department is taking the lead on the second topic. They will be sending an email telling us a little about themselves, their training and programs and the town hall-style discussion they envision that includes participants from our police department and local law enforcement professionals from surrounding communities.
In the last few months, we have seen how individual and collective action can flatten curves and change outcomes. As we have faced the COVID-19 pandemic, we have become adept at putting aside our own self-interests and acted on behalf of our neighbors and larger society. We have spent hours educating ourselves about a menacing threat and using that information to adjust both our actions and our thinking. We can do the same thing, climbing together, as we progress toward creating the community we aspire to have at Mines.
And, as always, we are interested in your thoughts and suggestions.
Stay well and stay safe, Orediggers,
Paul C. Johnson, President and Professor
Amy Landis, Professor and Presidential Faculty Fellow for Access, Attainment and Diversity
Dan Fox, Vice President of Student Life
Dustin Olson, Chief of Police and Director of Public Safety
Rick Holz, Provost and Professor
Kirsten Volpi, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
As protestors gather in cities around the country to express their outrage over the atrocity of George Floyd's death, and as we grieve other incidents of hate and violence perpetrated against people of color—from Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky to Tony McDade in Florida and Chris Cooper in New York, we are united in our anguish and anger.

To the Black members of our community who are hurting so badly, your friends and colleagues all wish we could ease your pain. We are heartbroken for the families of those who have died at the hands of hate and for those who have endured racist incidents they will never forget. We are heartbroken for those protestors who have come together to be heard and who have been met with violence. And we are heartbroken for the young people around our country who must be watching and reading the news and wondering, "When will it stop? When will it change?"

As President of Colorado State, I affirm that it is not enough to commit to being a university and a community where hate and bias and racism are not tolerated. We are committed to being anti-hate, anti-bias, and anti-racist.

And because I recognize the inadequacy of my words during this painful and uncertain time, I urge all of you to read the powerful statement that the Office of the Vice President for Diversity released this morning. I echo their words, in hope that doing so brings some comfort:

To our Black and African American community members: we see you and we are here for you. Our hearts are with you. Our words and actions are with you.
I am writing in both a personal and an institutional capacity. Like everyone, I have been reflecting on the events of the last week with an increasing sense of anguish at the human suffering we are witnessing and of alarm at the national crisis we are facing in our political system.

Until last Friday, I did not think it was possible for me to forget even for a moment that we are in the midst of an historic pandemic, bringing untold human loss and crossing a numerical threshold of unimaginable proportions. But the horrifying ending of the life of George Floyd, a citizen in the very system of justice intended to protect him, and us, which then, along with other recent tragic deaths, drew back the curtains on centuries of invidious discrimination against African Americans, and others, did that. My hopes for a renewed sense of national purpose to continue the heroic efforts of so many, over so many generations, to change once and for all that terrible course of history have been raised, and then deflated. We are at a point in our history where political leadership is not only absent but also disturbingly confounding of the fundamental norms and values that take years and years of hard and determined work to develop—and yet are always so fragile when pitted against the worst instincts of human nature. My concerns here are not partisan, but basic to our culture.

Like so many others here, I have chosen to dedicate my life to sustaining and building academic institutions, and my beloved Columbia, specifically. There is no question that the expectations of intellectual character we choose to live by in the academic world are extreme, and we cannot reasonably expect them to set the bar for ordinary political deliberations and interactions. But what we are seeing today—which unfortunately included just in the last week an unfounded attack on our research and researchers, as well as on the University itself-is at the opposite end of the spectrum. If this were a single incident, that would be one thing, but in the current way of behaving, these become acts of intimidation and dangerous mischaracterization of expertise, one of the hallmarks of a descent into authoritarianism.

In the face of all this, it is only a start to express empathy and solidarity with those in our community who are experiencing loss and apprehension. But I certainly do so here, on behalf of all of us. Universities are not perfect and we have to accept our share of responsibility for the state of affairs we have today. But we are determined, even more so now, to change and to be better. More than anything we will continue to provide the society and the world with all the knowledge we can preserve and create and with a new generation of citizens and leaders who are prepared to live by, and fight for, the values of respect for reason, the love of ideas, and the wish to use these to care for others. 

We say it often and we don’t say it lightly: one of Concordia’s greatest strengths is our diversity.

As a university with international reach, our thoughts are with Black communities across North America as yet another horrifying incident of racist police brutality exposes the terrible grip that systemic racism continues to wield in our contemporary world.

Before Concordia became the university it is today, events in the late 1960s at one of our founding institutions, Sir George Williams University, changed the discussion about racism in Canada. Our campus has long been known for its accessibility and openness, offering opportunities to individuals and communities who were not finding them elsewhere.

Concordia does not tolerate racism or violence of any sort. The university stands in solidarity with those who combat hatred in any form through peaceful means.

We will continue to promote our values of diversity, equity and respect on campus for all. We must also recognize that we are many voices at the university. We come from profoundly different backgrounds and social positions.

With this reality in mind, two years ago Concordia launched a three-phase consultation to develop a strategy for advancing Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) in all aspects of university life. It happens that right now we’re entering the final stage of that process and will be hosting consultation sessions this month to present our findings. 

This isn’t the time or place to recite the initiatives Concordia has undertaken to address racism. Instead, it is, unfortunately, another occasion to acknowledge that there is much more to do as we pursue our mission to create a more just society and brighter future for all through education.

Finally, we recognize that many members of the university community may need support right now. Concordia has people ready to listen.

    Please visit the International Students Office, Multi-Faith and Spirituality Centre, Health Services and/or Counselling and Psychological Services.
    Students can also call Empower Me at 1-844-741-6389 for 24/7 counselling support over the phone.
    Employees can contact the Employee Assistance Program at 1-800-663-1142 (English) or 1-866-398-9505 (French).

The events of the past week come at an especially trying time. It is customary to say of COVID-19 that we are all in this together. And we are. But the past several days are a stark reminder that the health of society also depends on other forms of collective vigilance.

     Like so many of you, my family and I have been reeling over the events of the past week – events for which words seem inadequate. The images we have seen and the sounds we have heard have horrified us and broken our hearts. We are ashamed of the injustices that are perpetrated in our country, every day, against people of color; and of the reality that 155 years after Cornell was founded to help heal the wounds of a broken nation, that nation is, in many ways, still so badly broken.

    The extraordinary times in which we are living are shining a spotlight on so many issues of equity, and the lack of it: on the ways that rights and opportunity are unevenly distributed across our society, and the worth of our labor and our lives unequally valued. As an academic community built on the bedrock values of diversity, inclusion, and openness, we have an obligation to ensure that the forces of these events and our feelings drive us not backward, but forward. Over these past days, the words that have resonated with me the most, as I have struggled with the question of how our community can best embrace our collective challenge, are those of the Rev. William J. Barber II, spoken to an empty church in Goldsboro, North Carolina, this past Sunday: "We cannot try to hurry up and put the screams and the tears and the hurt back in the bottle, just to get back to some normal that was abnormal in the first place. Hear the screams. Feel the tears. The very people who have been rejected over and over again are the ones who have shown us the possibility of a more perfect nation."

    Words are important. Words matter. But our words – of sympathy, of support, of shared pain – are not enough. While the challenges are enormous, and we cannot fix them on our own, that does not absolve us from taking whatever steps we can to fight against systemic racism and structural inequality. As a community, we can and must act, through our teaching, our research, and our engagement, to stand up for those who are oppressed or marginalized, to educate ourselves and others, and to work to ensure that we – our entire society – do better.

    Here are some of the things that Cornell will do immediately:

    Strengthen Community Involvement in Public Safety

    Cornell's Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) is composed of students, staff and faculty members who advise Cornell University Police on issues of public safety and victims' advocacy. The committee, which last met in April, makes recommendations to improve campus security policies and procedures and reviews issues that affect the overall safety and well-being of Cornell's diverse community. I have asked the PSAC to redouble their efforts to engage our community, with a specific focus on procedures and training in the areas of use of force, de-escalation techniques, and cultural competency.

    Summit with Regional Law Enforcement Agencies

    In addition to the work of the PSAC, the university administration has convened discussions in recent years with representatives of regional law enforcement agencies, including Cornell University Police, the Ithaca Police Department, the Tompkins County Sheriff's Office, and the New York State Police. These conversations have touched on shared interests, with a focus on understanding and sharing best practices around law enforcement interactions with communities of color. We will organize another session as soon as possible and include student, staff and faculty representatives in this important, ongoing conversation.

    Community Conversations on Race and Racism

    Using the community chat framework, the Office of Human Resources will be offering 75-minute Zoom sessions on topics such as institutional racism and the context of the current protests, ways to be an ally to our Black colleagues, and how to engage in proactive and meaningful dialogue around difficult topics such as racism. Details on the programs, and information on how to register, will be sent to all staff and faculty members by Vice President Mary Opperman early next week.

    Campus Community Book Read

    As a campus community, we have a collective responsibility to engage in difficult but critical conversations – to listen genuinely to, and learn from, one another. To help bring focus to these conversations, I invite all of you to participate in a Community Book Read of "How to Be an Antiracist," by National Book Award winner Ibram X. Kendi. We will soon provide all students, faculty, and staff with information about how to access an electronic copy of the book, along with a schedule of virtual discussions which will take place over the summer. I hope you will choose to read the book and to join in the conversation.

    Dialogue with Local Community Leaders

    I will be meeting next week with a diverse group of local elected, nonprofit, business, and faith community leaders to review the events of the last few weeks and consider how we might advance town-gown initiatives to further support the needs of our friends and neighbors.

    These plans are in addition to the ongoing work of the Belonging at Cornell framework that emerged from our diversity and inclusion initiatives, many of which were proposed by the President's Task Force on Campus Climate and/or the Provost's Task Force to Enhance Faculty Diversity. More than three-quarters of the goals laid out by the Task Force in 2018 have now been achieved, including the creation of a mandatory Intergroup Dialogue Project experience for all new undergraduates, an improved bias reporting process, implicit bias training for all faculty search committees, and increased support from the provost for faculty hires that advance diversity.

    All of this work will continue, but so much more needs to be done, at Cornell and beyond. I want to close by echoing the words of the Rev. Barber, in saying that there will be no return to "normal" from where we are right now. We are in a time of profound societal change – change that we, as a community and a society, have the power to influence and to shape. We can, and we will, rise to this challenge. Our own consciences demand it, as do our values as a community, and our ethos as Cornellians.
The amount of pain and suffering we are witnessing and feeling is only a snapshot of a broader social reality. We, and everyone before us, have had a role in arriving at where we are today. As such, it is of paramount importance to step up and take a stance. It is our responsibility and a moral imperative to not stand by and simply witness the events around us. We must collectively find our voice and reject racism and inequality. Silence perpetuates, doubt reinforces, and rationalization of incident after incident only compounds the pain so many in our society continue to endure.
While CRA has a long history of celebrating, promoting, and advocating for inclusivity, we cannot be satisfied with continuing the status quo. We will continue to actively stand against discrimination and hatred. We will find new ways to use our voice in Washington to advocate for policies that address the inequities that exist in our field. We will amplify the efforts of our membership organizations wherever we can to help them improve the spaces they occupy and create an environment that is more welcoming, just, and equitable to all. Only together can we begin to right the long history of wrongs that have led us to this place and time.

We start with acknowledging the issues by talking to those around us and explicitly stating that we stand with them when they stand against discrimination and hatred.
We know that racism:
•        Is systemic and institutionalized, was intentionally designed, and established well before the foundation of our nation.
•        Continues to oppress people of color around the world – denying basic human rights, denying opportunity, and even more tragically denying many of their very lives.
•        Is learned behavior that may be unlearned through education, compassion, empathy, and action.
•        Drives a wedge between communities, and in doing so limits the enviable quest for a society steeped in respect.
•        The privileged benefit from its existence and must be willing to sacrifice to overcome it.
•        Lives in our homes, schools, workplaces, parks, churches, stores, amusement parks, government, law enforcement – it lives in us all to varying degrees.
To stand against it, we:
•        Acknowledge the existence of racism within our communities and commit to defeating it.
•        Call out and reject rationalization of incidents and distortion of information.
•        Educate ourselves and those around us to be better equipped to address racism in its many forms.
•        Stand up against the status quo by using our voice and agency.
•        Commit to systemic change in laws, policies, procedures, etc.
•        Dedicate all necessary resources to create lasting change.

We stand in solidarity against racism and injustice. #BlackLivesMatter #CSforALL:  As CSforALL, we acknowledge that current systems are inherently flawed, biased, and unequal. Today, in solidarity with the fight against systematic racism and white supremacy, we say this with increased emphasis. CURRENT SYSTEMS ARE INHERENTLY FLAWED, BIASED, AND UNEQUAL.

We extend our support to ALL who are actively working to identify, change, repair, and replace the systems that cultivate inequity.

Educational equity can never exist in communities where life and liberty are not fundamental rights.

#BLACKLIVESMATTER 




The tragedy of George Floyd's death in Minneapolis is heartbreaking, yet all too familiar. From Trayvon Martin to Eric Garner to Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor, as well as earlier this week in Central Park, we have seen too many deaths and incidents of harassment perpetrated against the African American community. Racism and its deadly consequences are rooted in United States history. Slavery and its legacy live on, and these incidents make all too real the impact of this history.

In the past few weeks, we have witnessed the jarring violence of racism in images in the news and social media. Even in such unsettling times, these events are still occurring and prove that our country is still not immune to racism and the hatred it brings. These events cause grief, sadness, anger and frustration at our inability to conquer racism and protect our loved ones and our communities.

In our grief, let us pledge to work for change, to seek reform and to hold each other accountable for taking a stand against injustice. Let us work to become instruments of peace. As Dr. Reverend Martin Luther King once said, “Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate; only love can do that." In these times of darkness, let us protect and care for one another. The DePaul University community will stand together in solidarity against racism and hate.

At DePaul we are not indifferent when we see that the dignity of entire communities is not respected; whether it be through violent conflict, subtle discrimination, overt negligence of rights, or words and actions of hatred. These facts continue to generate anxiety and suffering, driving communities apart and putting peace, development and democracy under mounting pressure. We are DePaul, a united diverse community. Following the inspiration of St. Vincent de Paul, we promote, respect and protect the dignity of all.

For those who are struggling with recent events, I want to remind community members that University Counseling Services and the Religious Diversity and Pastoral Care offices are sources of support for those who seek assistance in these stressful times. 

We in the Drexel community are disheartened, disturbed and enraged by the pervasiveness of racism and violence against African Americans — most recently, George Floyd's senseless death in Minneapolis police custody, which prompted the demonstrations in Philadelphia and every other major city.

The tragedy of George Floyd's death, and the recent killings of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky, are just the latest examples of our nation's abject failure to address the root causes of inequality. At a time when the African American community is bearing a disproportionately heavy burden from the COVID-19 pandemic, this unrelenting racial violence against the black community exacts a tremendous physical and emotional toll.

We are living in what the American Psychological Association has described as a "racism pandemic" that exacts a heavy emotional toll. We understand that black individuals carry an additional burden of fear and anxiety, simply by nature of the color of their skin. As the APA states, "If you're black in America — and especially if you are a black male – it's not safe to go birding in Central Park, to meet friends at a Philadelphia Starbucks, to pick up trash in front of your own home in Colorado or to go shopping almost anywhere."

We are painfully aware that our campus community is suffering, and that anger and fear are dominating the lives of many of our students, faculty, professional staff and alumni. Many students in Philadelphia are on the front lines of peaceful protest in this city, and students who are home in other parts of the country are doing the same. They are rightly shocked when they are met with resistance. We are proud of their activism and courage, and we support their actions.

At times like this, it is imperative that we harness the values of our campus community to insist on change wherever we are, change in our country and change on our campus. As a university community, we can strive for an extra measure of compassion and understanding as we move forward to action. We can take the time to listen to one another, to have hard conversations about racism, to confront uncomfortable truths about ideologies of white supremacy, and to use what we learn to create an anti-racist campus free from intolerance and hatred. These dialogues are a first step to create a more equitable community as an ongoing aspiration for our University.

On Friday, June 5, at 12:30 p.m., we are opening up a space for dialogue about racism and the difficult path forward to become active allies in the fight against racism. We hope you will join this dialogue and let us know your plan to attend this inaugural virtual conversation by responding at this online link.

We call on all members of the Drexel community to insist on a more just and equitable future, and to speak out in peaceful but defiant resistance to the racial injustice endured by the African American community. We stand with the Drexel community — our students, faculty, professional staff, trustees and alumni – in calling for an end to the racism and discrimination in our country.

We hope you will join this dialogue on Friday and for future conversations, and we urge you to stay safe.
This week, as the United States passed the grim milestone of 100,000 lives lost to the coronavirus, the horrifying death of George Floyd has drawn national attention to fundamental and systematic disparities of justice in our nation. The events in Minneapolis have occurred on the heels of the murder of Ahmaud Arbery, the shooting of Breonna Taylor and in the context of the disproportionate impacts of COVID-19 on communities of color, including here in Durham. For many people at Duke and elsewhere, the pain, trauma and sense of hopelessness is overwhelming.

Every day, throughout our country, African American and other marginalized communities have their safety and dignity threatened—in their places of work, in public spaces, and in their homes and neighborhoods. This ongoing history of structural and sustained racism is a fundamental and deeply distressing injustice, here as elsewhere.

But we as a university must do more than recognize and grieve these circumstances; we must work together to change them.  In our Duke statement of values, we affirm our commitment to trust, respect, and inclusion. In that spirit, Duke University will continue the work of addressing generations of racism and injustice, of seeking ways to approach one another with respect, and of building communities that are truly safe, supportive, and inclusive for all.

My very best wishes to the entire Duke family in this troubling time.
The ECEP leadership team acknowledges that our work to broaden participation in computing will only have its full desired impact if we actively confront the systemic racism that has led to the current state of affairs in this country:
As advocates for equity in CS, we must, in both words and action, challenge the deeply ingrained structural racism permeating our culture and our educational systems. Real and lasting change will require ALL of us to dismantle structural inequities by engaging as allies and advocates for change.



As Emory leaders speak out against racist violence, the community will come together Friday, June 5, to unite for an anti-racist world.

A university-wide online solidarity vigil is set for 4 p.m. Friday. Earlier in the day, the Emory medicine community will hold "White Coats for Black Lives" events on the Emory Quadrangle and at six hospitals. Masks and social distancing will be mandatory.

"All of us are grappling with the violent deaths of Georgia resident Ahmaud Arbery, Minneapolis citizen George Floyd, Kentucky citizen Breonna Taylor, and too many other instances of racism and violence against people of color," Emory President Claire E. Sterk said in a message sent to the Emory community May 30. "These senseless acts strike at the heart of Emory's commitment to upholding equity, diversity and inclusion. Now, more than ever, we must stand together against intolerance and racism." 

Sterk will speak at Friday's online solidarity vigil, which is hosted by the Office of Spiritual and Religious Life along with Campus Life. Other speakers include Carol Henderson, vice provost for diversity and inclusion and chief diversity officer; LaNita Campbell, director of the Office for Racial and Cultural Engagement; the Rev. Greg McGonigle, university chaplain and dean of religious life; and Olivia Johnson, a student in the Laney Graduate School.

The event will also include a reading from Jericho Brown, Emory's Winship Distinguished Research Professor in Creative Writing, who recently won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry. Attendees should register to attend and are encouraged to light a candle for those who have died.

 "The Emory community stands for justice in all aspects of our mission, and when confronted with hatred and prejudice, we must speak out," Sterk emphasized in her message. "Emory respects the dignity and value of all human beings, and our community will continue to engage in conversations that matter, no matter how difficult the dialogue, so that together, we might seek a more just and equitable world for all."

Emory President-elect Gregory L. Fenves, who takes the helm of the university Aug. 1, sent a message to the community June 2 reflecting on the tragedies of the past weeks and the protests in Atlanta and across the nation.

"The murder of George Floyd, under the knee of a police officer, horrified me as a human being and as an American," Fenves said. "Mr. Floyd's death, coming in the wake of so many other killings of African American citizens — including Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia — has unleashed anger and outrage about systemic racism that has not been addressed more than 60 years after the Civil Rights Movement started. We are still fighting the same battles and people have had enough — of racist violence, of organized hatred and of longstanding social inequities." 

But amid the despair, the Emory community has the ability to lead change "through education, research, health care and creative expression, but also by leading with your hearts," he continued, noting that he learned from his father that "it is our duty to speak up — to not be silent — so that injustice could be rooted out and overcome. 

"It is my hope, then, that the tragedy of George Floyd's murder and those before him will awaken us all to our deepest flaws and help us heal, change and create a better future, together," Fenves said.

Interim Provost Jan Love called on the Emory community to remember that "education is only one tool, but it is powerful" and to note that the university's motto — "the wise heart seeks knowledge" — "deliberately combines head and heart."

"Righteous rage is a healthy immediate emotion in response to the outrageous violence we are witnessing perpetrated against black people," Love said in June 3 message to the Emory community. "If you want to be part of meaningful, productive and life-giving change, definitely get mad, but then get busy. We all have work to do. Let's do it together."
White Coats for Black Lives

The Emory School of Medicine community will gather in seven locations earlier on Friday for "White Coats for Black Lives" events. Participants will kneel for 8 minutes and 46 seconds in remembrance of George Floyd, as well as countless other victims of racist violence. 

"Our aspirations for a racism-free world seem so very, very far away. For that, we should all be sad, angry, and at the same time energized to do all that we can to serve as forces of change to support each other, regardless of race, and to confront both racism and the racists who would seek to divide and damage," Emory Healthcare CEO Jonathan S. Lewin said in May 30 message. 

The events take place at 1 p.m. and all are welcome to attend; masks and social distancing will be mandatory. Locations include the following: 

    School of Medicine and Clifton Campus (EUH): Emory Quadrangle
    Emory University Hospital Midtown: Orr Building Courtyard
    Emory Saint Joseph's Hospital: Meditation Garden
    Emory Johns Creek Hospital: Classrooms A & B, Lower Level
    Emory Decatur Hospital: Front Plaza by the flagpole
    Emory Hillandale Hospital: Main Entrance
    Grady Memorial Hospital: Main Entrance on the corner of Jesse Hill and Gilmer Street





Our world is in pain, from ills both medically treatable and socially teachable. Florida Tech is proud to have one of the most diverse student populations of any U.S. university. Justice and equality are core principles that we value here, and education sheds light where there otherwise was darkness. I look forward to the conversations we will have as a community of learners when students arrive for fall classes. Until then, I hope that all of you stay safe and healthy, open your minds to ideas that make you uncomfortable, and always treat your fellow humans with dignity and respect.




We are going to keep this statement brief. Words are failing all of us in the wake of George Floyd's murder. When leaders reach for words like outrage, horror, or despair, they only do more damage when they are not matched by action. As James Baldwin once famously said, "I can't believe what you say, because I see what you do."

So, no words without action. We are determined to keep George Mason University true to its motto, to be a place of "freedom and learning."We will take whatever steps are necessary to ensure every member of Mason Nation, and every visitor to our campuses, is safe: physically safe, emotionally safe, culturally safe, and intellectually safe, to become who they want to be.

To do that, today we directed the senior leadership of Mason to conduct a thorough review of our academic, research, public service, student service, campus law enforcement, and alumni offerings that contribute to social justice, racial equity, and peaceful conflict resolution. And we have directed them also to root out areas where we have fallen short of our intentions, through either conscious or unconscious bias.

Where we have services and expertise to offer a hurting, grieving community, we will step up – to the Mason community, to northern Virginia, to the national capital region, and beyond. We simply will not allow this moment to divert Mason from the long-standing pursuit of access to excellence, which is our ultimate tool to fight the perpetuation of racism.

And where we learn we have failed the diverse community we so proudly serve, we will direct necessary resources to fill the void. The COVID-19 pandemic has put us under unprecedented financial duress, but nothing is more strategically or morally vital to our future than truly living up to our mission to be an "inclusive academic community committed to creating a more just, free, and prosperous world."

In the weeks and months ahead, we will have more to say about what we have to offer to advance social justice and healing, and about what changes we will make to improve how Mason will better serve the community and the nation as a whole. We invite you to stay tuned and be prepared to act with us.

Our nation is fighting two pandemics – the COVID-19 virus, and the pandemic of racism in America. George Mason University will address both with the same vigor and sense of urgency.
Like everyone in our community, I write to you today feeling sad and angry about the brutal killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor, along with the racist incident in Central Park. 

I cannot begin to fathom the hurt GW’s Black students, faculty and staff may be feeling. My heart goes out to all who are suffering and may not feel safe. 

Please know that we continue to offer support and resources and are planning some online community events that are referenced in this message from Vice Provost Caroline Laguerre-Brown and the Office of Diversity, Equity and Community Engagement.

While I wish we had the opportunity to host these conversations and support one another on campus, I know that we remain a strong community, and we will find ways to connect until our planned return to campus this fall. I look forward to working together—harnessing the power of the community that comprises this great institution—to address racism and injustice on our campus and in our society.
Like many of you, I have struggled to process the senseless, heartbreaking killing of George Floyd by a police officer in Minneapolis. It is hard not to see a pattern of violence against black people when this tragic death comes on the heels of Ahmaud Arbery’s shooting right here in Georgia, Breonna Taylor’s in Kentucky, and so many others before them across our country. I acknowledge the pain many members of our community are feeling, and I stand in solidarity with our African American brothers and sisters and all people of goodwill, as we find a path forward.

There is much soul-searching we need to do as a society. We all share in the responsibility to deliver on our foundational belief that all people are created equal and are endowed with the same fundamental rights. While we demand change from those with the power to enact it, we must also ask what each of us can do to make good on that promise. And that includes all of us at Georgia Tech.

For the past few months, we have worked together on a new vision of inclusion, public service, and impact. That vision requires that we open the doors of opportunity to more people of underrepresented backgrounds. That we reduce barriers of access that still persist and that have nothing to do with talent. That we reject the status quo and do better. That we listen to and work with our students to create a more inclusive environment where people of all backgrounds can learn and grow. That we educate students who can think critically about the society we live in and can lead us to a better place.

As scholars and researchers, we need to ask ourselves how the science and technology we advance and the theories and solutions we propose help all of us live better lives. As alumni and leaders in business and society, we need to hold ourselves to a higher standard of equal opportunity, inclusivity, and impact.

Last September, we had the privilege to meet, listen to, and honor the first four African American students in the Institute’s history. That day helped me better appreciate our long struggle to become more just and inclusive — and how, by being more just and inclusive, we have become much stronger. Today, we must reflect on how much further we have to go.

I encourage all of us at Georgia Tech to be true to our motto of Progress and Service, to deliver on our mission to develop leaders who advance technology and improve the human condition. Those aren’t just words on a page. We have a responsibility to our campus community, to our local community, and to our nation to help change our world for the better. We have a responsibility to empower and include more people, backgrounds, and perspectives in the process.
The senseless killings of Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd have brought forward understandable pain and anger about racism and violence against black Americans. There is no place for racism and violence in our society or at Georgia State.

As a society and a nation, we must be better. The racism and violence that plague our society must stop, and the healing must begin.

Atlanta‘s many decades of peaceful protest and advocacy for social justice have resulted in real and positive change in our society. Georgia State is an example of that change. Racial exclusion was replaced with inclusion, and racism was replaced with black students excelling as academic and community leaders. We’re on the right track, and through continued hard work and sustained commitment we will together help bring an end to the pain and injustice that ail our society.

Now, I ask each and every member of the Georgia State community to stand in solidarity in rejecting racism and violence and to commit to building a better future where opportunity is real and just.


The current state of affairs in our nation today saddens and
enrages me.  Equal justice under the law
is a cornerstone of liberty, but this was not the case with Mr. George
Floyd.  He was murdered by a white
Minneapolis policeman who put his knee on Mr. Floyd's neck until he died.  The policeman in question and those who stood around and watched this crime being committed have now been arrested, but
should have been arrested immediately. 
It is my hope that they will all be prosecuted to the fullest extent of
the law. 
As president of Hampton University and one who witnessed and
participated in the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950's and 1960's, I am
pleased to see those who have initiated peaceful protests expressing their
concerns about police brutality, particularly towards African Americans.  During the late 1950's and 1960's, I participated
in marches and other peaceful protests that were led by Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr.  I was also the vice-president of a statewide student Civil Rights organization. 
My father was a building contractor and Civil Rights
leader.  Therefore, our household was one of those homes that was a meeting place for the local organizations.  It also served as a rest stop for out of town
travelers who could not use public accommodations because of the racism of the
time.  For those travelers, most of these
visits occurred on the weekends and might include a meal, a glass of tea or
lemonade, a nap on the living room sofa, or an overnight stay.  Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. visited several
times although I do not recall him spending the night.  His brother Rev. A. D. King was a frequent
visitor and overnight guest.  Their
visits always included interesting conversations.  I shall forever be indebted to my father for
allowing me to sit in on some of those meetings.  He gave me permission to be present with the
proviso that I could not ask a question, venture an opinion, or otherwise
speak.  As he would say, "You are to
listen and learn."
In these meetings, there were conversations about successes,
failures, problems, promises, and plans for progress in the Civil Rights
Movement.  Some of the attendees urged
the abandonment of peaceful demonstrations and encouraged violent responses
that matched the batons, bullets, hoses, and dogs used by police against
us.  Dr. King spoke out strongly against
the use of these tactics.  He felt that
it would hurt our cause, and he was proven right.  In that same vein, I think that our cause is
hurt today when we focus more on retaliation and less on seeking police reform
and justice.
While peaceful protestors rally to make their voices heard,
the violence, looting, and destruction of property are not the solution. These
acts hinder the cause of justice that so many are seeking.  Peaceful demonstration is a part of African
American history, but engaging in the above-mentioned acts hurts our cause. To
be sure, there will be criticism for those of us who believe in peaceful
protest to achieve desired goals and objectives.

 

I do not have all of the answers, but three specific
thoughts come to mind.   First, now is
the time for us to again come together in our homes and churches to have
conversations about how we can move forward as a people and as a nation to end
police brutality against African Americans. Secondly, every municipality in the
country should establish a colloquium board to facilitate dialogue between
representatives of the police and the African American community to include
ministers, educators, organizational leaders, and other citizens of
good-will.  Thirdly, every state and
local police academy as well as other providers of law enforcement officers
should establish a mandatory class on policing in the African American
community.

 

While I cannot claim to know all of the answers to these
problems nor the timeline for resolution, I do know that nothing can be
accomplished unless we work together for the betterment of ourselves, our
communities, and our nation. Until this happens, justice will not served.  All of us must understand the immorality of
racism as we support the victims of racial discrimination.





The last several months have been disorienting for all of us. COVID-19 has profoundly disrupted the lives of people worldwide. It has caused more than 365,000 deaths around the globe and more than 100,000 in the United States alone. Forty million Americans have lost their jobs, and countless others live in fear of both the virus and its economic consequences.

In the midst of this incomprehensible loss, our nation has once again been shocked by the senseless killing of yet another black person—George Floyd—at the hands of those charged with protecting us. Cities are erupting. Our nation is deeply divided. Leaders who should be bringing us together seem incapable of doing so.

I cannot help but think back to 1968, the spring of my junior year in high school. First, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, then Bobby Kennedy. Riots broke out in nearby Detroit, as they did across the country. Then, like now, our nation was hugely polarized, and we desperately struggled to find common ground that might unite us. 

At the time, hope was in short supply. It seemed difficult to imagine how we would move forward, but we did. As I think about the challenges that we face today, I return again and again to what I believe:

I believe in the goodness of the people of this country—and in their resilience.

I believe that all of us, liberal and conservative, Democrat and Republican, whatever our race or ethnicity, want a better life for our children.

I believe that America should be a beacon of light to the rest of the world.

I believe that our strength as a nation is due in no small measure to our tradition of welcoming those who come to our shores in search of freedom and opportunity, individuals who repay us multiple times over through their hard work, creativity, and devotion to their new home. 

I believe in the American Dream.

I believe in the Constitution, the separation of powers, the First Amendment—especially the right to a free and independent press that holds those in power accountable, and to a free and independent judiciary.

I believe in the 14th Amendment’s guarantee of equal protection of the laws—for everyone, not just for those who look like me.

I believe that no person is above the law regardless of the office they hold or the uniform they wear. Those who break the law must be held accountable.

I believe that one measure of the justness of a society is how it treats its most vulnerable members.

I believe we must provide opportunity to those who may not encounter it on their own so that they may achieve their full potential.

I believe in the power of knowledge and ideas to change the world, of science and medicine to defeat disease, of the arts and humanities to illuminate the human condition.

This is just some of what I believe. I hope you will pause during these troubled times to ask what you believe. Even more importantly, I hope you will find the strength and determination to act on your beliefs—to repair and perfect this imperfect world. Those of us privileged to work or study at a place like this bear special responsibilities. As Luke teaches us, from those to whom much is given, much is expected.


Recent months have cast a long shadow as the pandemic continues its deadly toll on the nation ravaging Black, Brown and Native American communities in particular.   And in the midst of such anguish, the images of Black Americans treated without humanity and – in some cases – brutalized in the last moments of their earthly lives' triggers waves of emotion including staggering grief and righteous anger.   

This constant attack on the Black experience must end.

I am the proud father of two precocious teenagers.  Like many parents we have very purposely had "The Talk"– the unwelcome but necessary conversation about how to prepare for engagement with law enforcement. Watching these modern-day examples of social injustice and unrest in the presence of my 15-year-old son has brought up some difficult conversations. He reminded me of a time when we were heading to campus and were pulled over. I personally don't recall all the details of that stop. However, my son vividly remembers the anger he felt as a result of the interaction. Upon seeing the news out of Minneapolis, he turned to me and asked, "Dad, should I just fall to the ground if a cop approaches me?"Praying for the right words to say, I told him that he should remain calm and try to express himself to the best of his ability. Yet, even after struggling through that conversation, the myriad names of innocent Black lives taken through lethal force  – young and old, men and women –  testify to the insufficiency of that advice. 

This moment of compounding crises leaves little doubt that the daily experience of so many in our community remain marked by heightened vulnerability and a likelihood to encounter deadly force at the hands of misguided individuals or those whose bigoted views betray the oaths they swore to protect and serve.  

Howard University emerged from the ashes of the American Civil War, a conflict that raised but hardly resolved the racial divide in this nation.  Firmly rooted in a promise that offered the transformative power of education to all, Howard has consistently taught that the highest use of knowledge gained at the Mecca is demonstrated in service above self; focused on addressing systematic injustices and entrenched interests antagonistic to our enjoyment of life and liberty.  Our scholars have enlightened, our physicians have healed, our lawyers have advocated, our activists have agitated, our entrepreneurs have built, our counselors have comforted, and our artists have enriched even life itself.

Our nation would be a shadow of itself and remain as imperfect as it was at its inception without the contributions of Howard University and all it stands for. 

In the context of current events there must always be accountability for all found responsible through a fair and thorough investigation so that justice is served. Yet even as we see individual perpetrators on our screens, we must remain mindful that the distorted worldviews and ugly biases have too often been codified into inequitable or predatory systems are equally culpable.  The book of Ephesians reminds us "For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places."

We were born for such a time as this. And I am convinced that institutions like Howard University are destined to continue to build, mold and train the leaders who will help bring needed change to the structures of our society.

No pandemic, no declining economy, no period of prosperity, and no cure for every medical ailment will undo or hide the realities of the Black experience. We must bring consistency to that struggle and focus our intellect and passion daily to prepare for the hard work that must be done to confront evil and systematic oppression. 

As students: remain vigilant about your studies. You are matriculating through Howard University for a purpose that is greater than yourselves. You are the hope of our ancestors and despite the new challenges that will come our way, each day that you remain resolved to focus on your destiny is a day that brings us closer to resolution to many of our world's dilemmas.

As faculty: continue to focus our energies and concern on our students so that they would be nurtured, thrive and excel. We all are intricately woven into the fabric of the Howard University legacy.  Keep researching, writing, and speaking out to craft solutions to the contemporary challenges we face.  We must be diligent in our work and conversations with students to hear and walk with them through these trying times. 

Let's not forget that we are all living these experiences in our daily lives outside of Howard. It is everywhere that we are. Let's first start by not looking past each other wherever we may be and work on actively loving each other. 

In this moment it is necessary to grieve over another life taken unnecessarily and those who loved him who are now broken and left behind to mourn.  It's okay to be angry. It's okay to be sad. It's okay to feel numb. Stay there as long as you need to. I encourage you to take those feelings and channel them into something durable. Write about it. Sing about it. Participate in the electoral process and vote about it. 

We must remember the names of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Atatiana Jefferson, Breonna Taylor and the countless other lives gone too soon.  

We can honor their memories through a life of purpose in confronting and correcting those skewed systems until they respect the humanity and inherent dignity in each of us.

You have noticed that we haven’t posted much lately. As Black Women, we are taking time away from social media for self-care and processing these events individually.
We hope that you are too doing what you can to protect your peace.
{Self-care resources in Bio}

The IEEE Computer Society is, and remains, strongly committed to equity, diversity, and inclusion and we see no place for hatred and discrimination in our communities. Equity, diversity, and inclusion are central to the goals of the Computer Society and all of our activities. We are proactively supporting diversity and inclusion with the creation of a new taskforce this year that will address ways the Computer Society can improve its mission to better serve those most under-represented in our community. However, we know there is more we can do to support these ideals of equity, diversity, and inclusion.

We are ready to listen. Please send your suggestions to inclusion@computer.org and your comments will be shared with Computer Society leadership and the Computer Society Diversity & Inclusion Task Force.



History teaches us that silence is acceptance. This isn't the time to be quiet. At #icsme2020, we strive to build a safe, diverse and inclusive environment. We support and uplift the Black voices in our community. Today—and always—we stand in solidarity with the Black community.

As the events following the tragic death of George Floyd in Minneapolis have created unrest in our city, state, and nation, I want to reaffirm our unwavering support of our students, faculty, staff, alumni, and Bronzeville neighbors of African descent. Simply put, the university unequivocally condemns discrimination and violence against all African Americans within our community and across the country. 

The pain and outrage that many of us feel at this time is palpable. I reaffirm this university's ongoing and strong commitment against racism of all kinds. Our university is dedicated to peacefully working with our community to reject fear, violence, and injustice and to contribute to positive change in Chicago and in our nation. 

Our university was founded to bridge inequity in education and opportunity—and that informs every aspect of who we are as a university. As outlined in our Statement on Community, Inclusion, and Diversity, "We embrace the contributions that differences offer."

Please stay safe during this difficult time.
****video message***
Like many of you, I have followed the events in Minneapolis and the demonstrations in cities around the nation in response to the tragic death of George Floyd with a mixture of deep sadness, frustration, anger and disappointment. My heart goes out to all those feeling pain and anguish over this senseless death and to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives in the protests of recent days or who have suffered loss and damage in other ways. It is truly difficult to comprehend this tragedy and to find the right words to console the many people, especially members of the African-American community, who are hurting right now and hoping that justice will ultimately be served.  

To echo IU Vice President James Wimbush, who eloquently expressed his sadness and great concern earlier today on the reaction, in his home city of Indianapolis, to George Floyd’s death, the list is far too long of those black and brown individuals who have been subjected to disturbing violence in recent years. This list underscores the racism, bigotry, intolerance and hatred that too many members of our society, especially people of color, are forced to confront on a daily basis. It also draws our attention to the deeply disturbing growth in recent years here and around the world in the number of hate groups, as well as the immensely concerning increase in the number of acts of hatred and violence against minorities.

Here at IU, students of color now make up more than a quarter of the university’s total enrollment. Hence what is happening in Minneapolis and other cities around the nation serves as a powerful reminder that we have a special obligation to work to ensure that our campus communities are places where differences of all kinds, whether of race, ethnicity or belief, are respected, valued and protected, and where hatred, bigotry and intolerance will be powerfully condemned.

We are all members of an educational community, and as such, we must always, as part of the very core of what we do, face the challenges inherent in understanding and evaluating the ideas, assertions and arguments that come from other perspectives, other traditions, other disciplines and other beliefs, as we pursue our fundamental mission of searching for knowledge and truth. At the same time, we cannot afford to ignore the lessons drawn from the serious and informed study of present-day racism and intolerance and their deep connections with centuries-old traditions of suspicion and hatred. Much important scholarship is taking place at IU in these areas, and that scholarship has never been more important.

We must continue to insist that there is absolutely no room at IU for discrimination or harassment based on anyone’s actual or perceived race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin or political beliefs. We see our diversity as one of our cardinal virtues. We are extremely proud of our students of color and their achievements – students who are such a vital part of the cultural and historical fabric of our institution, but we will have failed them if we cannot provide to them campus environments where they feel safe, supported and respected. 

In the days and months ahead, we must strongly reaffirm Indiana University’s fundamental commitment to diversity and equity. We must condemn those who seek to divide us based on race, ethnicity, national origin and other areas. We must join together as a strong and vigorous educational community to be inclusive, supportive and welcoming to all. And we must always stand up for what is good and right.

#BlackLivesMatter is not just a cardboard sign. White educators and PD providers: you have a role in ending systemic oppression. Have conversations about race in your classroom. Embed Black history in culturally sensitive curricula. Work to abolish the school-to-prison pipeline --see the effects of policing on yr own students. Support students as they work thru racial trauma. Really ask yourself what "equity" means in your work. No matter whether you can do it in the streets, you can in the classroom. https://twitter.com/trussleaders…/status/1267333391604527104
Like many of you, I have followed the events in Minneapolis and the demonstrations in cities around the nation in response to the tragic death of George Floyd with a mixture of deep sadness, frustration, anger and disappointment. My heart goes out to all those feeling pain and anguish over this senseless death and to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives in the protests of recent days or who have suffered loss and damage in other ways. It is truly difficult to comprehend this tragedy and to find the right words to console the many people, especially members of the African-American community, who are hurting right now and hoping that justice will ultimately be served.  

To echo IU Vice President James Wimbush, who eloquently expressed his sadness and great concern earlier today on the reaction, in his home city of Indianapolis, to George Floyd’s death, the list is far too long of those black and brown individuals who have been subjected to disturbing violence in recent years. This list underscores the racism, bigotry, intolerance and hatred that too many members of our society, especially people of color, are forced to confront on a daily basis. It also draws our attention to the deeply disturbing growth in recent years here and around the world in the number of hate groups, as well as the immensely concerning increase in the number of acts of hatred and violence against minorities.

Here at IU, students of color now make up more than a quarter of the university’s total enrollment. Hence what is happening in Minneapolis and other cities around the nation serves as a powerful reminder that we have a special obligation to work to ensure that our campus communities are places where differences of all kinds, whether of race, ethnicity or belief, are respected, valued and protected, and where hatred, bigotry and intolerance will be powerfully condemned.

We are all members of an educational community, and as such, we must always, as part of the very core of what we do, face the challenges inherent in understanding and evaluating the ideas, assertions and arguments that come from other perspectives, other traditions, other disciplines and other beliefs, as we pursue our fundamental mission of searching for knowledge and truth. At the same time, we cannot afford to ignore the lessons drawn from the serious and informed study of present-day racism and intolerance and their deep connections with centuries-old traditions of suspicion and hatred. Much important scholarship is taking place at IU in these areas, and that scholarship has never been more important.

We must continue to insist that there is absolutely no room at IU for discrimination or harassment based on anyone’s actual or perceived race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin or political beliefs. We see our diversity as one of our cardinal virtues. We are extremely proud of our students of color and their achievements – students who are such a vital part of the cultural and historical fabric of our institution, but we will have failed them if we cannot provide to them campus environments where they feel safe, supported and respected. 

In the days and months ahead, we must strongly reaffirm Indiana University’s fundamental commitment to diversity and equity. We must condemn those who seek to divide us based on race, ethnicity, national origin and other areas. We must join together as a strong and vigorous educational community to be inclusive, supportive and welcoming to all. And we must always stand up for what is good and right.



Johns Hopkins University and Medicine shared a message Sunday in solidarity against racism. The message responds to the rise of anti-Asian discrimination during the coronavirus pandemic and the deaths of African Americans that have sparked recent protests in cities across the U.S., including in Baltimore.

Johns Hopkins released the following statement:

Dear Members of the Johns Hopkins Community,

In the past three months, across the U.S. and around the globe, we have experienced extraordinary challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In communities of which Johns Hopkins is a part—from Baltimore City, Washington, D.C., Prince George's, Howard, and Montgomery Counties to St. Petersburg, Florida, and many more—we have witnessed our African American, Latinx, Native American, and poverty-stricken communities disproportionately dying from COVID-19, while our Asian and Asian American communities have been targeted with vitriol because of the disease's origins. People have lost family members, and the economic impact of this pandemic has led to many people having lost their jobs.

This has been a tremendous burden for many to bear. The recent death of George Floyd in Minneapolis as well as the deaths of Breonna Taylor, a first responder in Louisville, Kentucky, shot in her own bed while sleeping; Ahmaud Arbery, shot while jogging near Brunswick, Georgia; and far too many others reinforce the brutal truth that the African American community still remains vulnerable to senseless violence, even during a pandemic. For those of us in Baltimore, these tragedies also call to mind the death of Freddie Gray while in police custody five years ago. And this moment serves as a reminder of the compounding effects on our communities.

Because we are all intricately connected by our common humanity, if one segment of our community is hurting, it adversely impacts all of us. This is not just an issue for African Americans; it is an issue that threatens the future for all Americans.

We hear the needs of the Johns Hopkins community to have an honest dialogue about these issues and develop steps to address them through our daily activities and relationships, scholarship and teaching, and health care delivery and leadership. We must acknowledge that these vulnerabilities to violence and health crises faced by black and brown communities are born out of continued racial disparities in education, employment, housing, and criminal justice. To that end, under the leadership of the JHM Office of Diversity and Inclusion and in collaboration with other groups across Johns Hopkins, we will host a Journeys in Healing symposium series, "The Language of the Unheard: A Virtual Town Hall on Racial Injustice," in early June. More details will follow once dates have been solidified.

We also recognize and acknowledge the anguish that these recent incidents are causing for our faculty, students, staff, trainees, and alumni across the Johns Hopkins family. We encourage you to access the many supportive services available. At JHM, these services include mySupport, Spiritual Care and Chaplaincy, the Office of Well-Being, the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, and the JHM Office of Diversity and Inclusion. University affiliates can reach out to mySupport, find student wellness resources at wellness.jhu.edu or on the Student Outreach and Support site, or contact the Office of Institutional Equity for assistance.

During this time of immense challenge, let us work together to be a light to facilitate education, healing, connection, support, and service to each other and to our community.


Open Letter to the Students of Johnson C. Smith University

The World Needs YOU Now More Than Ever 
In the midst of a pandemic that has affected nearly every continent on earth, that has exposed and laid bare the inequalities borne most heavily by the poor and underserved of our community; we now find this country in the midst of facing once again the harsh reality of the legacy of racism, the seeds of which were planted over 400 years ago on this continent. In the last several weeks we have witnessed Ahmaud Arbery's senseless killing while jogging in Georgia; black delivery men in an Oklahoma gated community being held against their will for failing to answer the questions of two white men who questioned the delivery men's right to have entered their enclave; a white female New York City investment banker call the police on a black man who merely asked that she follow the law and leash her dog while in Central Park; and most recently, the shocking death of George Floyd as a white police officer kneeled on his neck for over 8 minutes, literally two minutes after he had already gasped his last breath.

The cumulative effect of these events and similar events, which occurred in years past, has led to understandable frustrations that ask the question: When will this end? The insidious nature of racism suggests that it may not be soon, but it is my hope that you and your peers at institutions of higher education throughout this country, especially those attending HBCUs, will lead this country to a new understanding of its obligations to ensure that the inequality gap does not continue to expand and that we make certain all members of society have the opportunities to reach their full potential.

Two weeks ago, 70 HBCUs, including Johnson C. Smith University, participated in a nationwide commencement celebration. President Barack Obama was among the many people who offered words of wisdom to our graduates.  I am reminded of something he said in making an observation of the state of the world and the significance of the graduates being honored that day. To paraphrase, he said: "We need you now, more than ever!" I wholeheartedly agree with President Obama.  It is critical that your voices are heard; your perspectives are seen; and your experiences are acknowledged in helping to examine, explore and resolve many of the stresses that are threatening to rip the fabric of our society apart.

I know the events of the last few days may have you confused and wondering where is your place in the world.  I would amplify President Obama's call to you: We need you now, more than ever!  And we, the faculty, staff, administration and Trustees of JCSU stand ready, willing and able to prepare you to take on the issues of injustice and inequality facing this country and the world.

Stay safe! We are looking forward to the day when we can reconvene on campus as the unified, resilient and strong community that we are. 

Sincerely,

Clarence D. Armbrister signature

Clarence D. Armbrister, J.D.

President
As we work to reawaken our university community from our COVID-19 isolation, we also must contend with social injustice issues plaguing our country. At the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, around the country, we witnessed acts of prejudice toward those from China and other Asian countries. Now, we are witnessing protests over the killing of black and Latino individuals by law enforcement officers. This is clearly no time to be silent on issues of social justice.

A number of K-State faculty and staff have meaningfully engaged the Kansas higher education community in dialogue on these matters. We believe, unapologetically, that there is nothing to debate. Social injustice is alive and well and more often than not, finds its way to the doorsteps and lives of individuals in the most marginalized communities.

We recognize these acts of injustice may not have taken place on our campuses or in our communities, but they can still have a profound impact on our community members. Our students, faculty, staff and administrators are affected by these acts of injustice. In some cases, members of our community may think this could happen to them, their family members or their friends.

The Kansas State University Police Department is dedicated to our community and strives to earn our confidence and respect. We know this respect is hard-won and can be easily lost — it only takes one incident to erase years of goodwill. Our officers are highly professional and well trained in how to interact with our community members. We have confidence they endeavor to uphold our community values. In this time of strife, they also deserve our continued respect and support. 

At Kansas State University, we affirm the inherent dignity and value of every person and strive to maintain an atmosphere of justice based on respect for each other. We understand the impact these acts of social injustice have on marginalized communities and their allies. We stand with you and we ask our community members to demonstrate the empathy, sympathy and social responsibility that reflects the same accountability we expect of those entrusted to protect and serve.

Those who have been impacted by recent events are encouraged to contact Student Life or Counseling Services by calling 785-532-6927.

Social injustice has always been with us, but we must stand up for what's right and support those who feel threatened or marginalized.
We all have spent much of the last few days watching as the nation mourns the death of George Floyd. We join the nation in mourning. Our collective sorrow remembers Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery, two African Americans also killed this year. Our grief and pain also are tied to the reality that African Americans along with other marginalized communities are disproportionately impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Closer to home, two members of our beloved Golden Flashes community, state Sen. and Kent State Associate Professor of Political Science Vernon Sykes and state Rep. and Kent State alumna Emilia Strong Sykes, received threats related to their duties as elected state officials. Additionally, on May 3, an individual known to authorities for his anti-Semitic views was heard asking a store clerk in Stow the location of Kent State and made comments that could be perceived as threatening to the Jewish community. Fortunately, the individual did not make it to Kent and was arrested on another charge.

In recent statements by both Black United Students and the Undergraduate Student Government, these issues are on the minds of many of our student leaders who are actively working toward a vision of equity and justice that will shape a better future.

It is the hope and aspirations of our students, combined with the history and lessons of May 4, 1970, that remind us of the need to study the root causes of current troubles as we search for a better future. We are called to learn more about the structures, histories, assumptions, prejudices and cultures that lead to disparate outcomes in healthcare, in the judicial system and in myriad aspects of our lives. We are thankful that our Kent State historians, sociologists, public health professors, Peace and Conflict Studies and Pan-African Studies professors, and many, many others are participating in these national conversations. Understanding and improving the world we inhabit are central to what we do at Kent State, as is our commitment to kindness and respect in all that we do.

As we work to reopen our university safely, let us remember that many of our community members live daily with injustices that inflict pain, trauma and a host of other emotions. As Golden Flashes, we ask that you recommit yourselves to the promotion of equity and justice and continue to lift up our institutional values of respect, kindness and purpose. We appreciate each of you and look forward to continuing the work of making our community equitable and inclusive for all.





The recent tragic events in Minneapolis around the death of George Floyd, as well as other incidents of violence inflicted upon African Americans in our country, have shocked the nation and deeply affected all of us.  Our deepest sympathies go out to the family and loved ones of Mr. Floyd and the families and friends of those who have lost their lives to other horrific and senseless acts of racism. These events further demonstrate our need to stand together as a community and take ownership of our obligation to fight against the systemic discrimination and racial disparities that continue to plague our nation.

As members of the Lehigh University community, we must affirm our values—equality, peaceful dialogue, the free exchange of ideas and the encouragement of respectful debate—and support the condemnation and repudiation of systemic discrimination, hate and intolerance and their violent manifestation. We must continue to affirm our shared responsibility to fight ignorance, model inclusive excellence and embrace the power of diversity.

It is our shared responsibility to work together to create a society in which discrimination and racism are no longer tolerated.  We must play an active role in understanding, candidly engaging in dialogue, and solving the problems of racial inequity and injustice.

While I would not presume to speak about the experience of African Americans, I know African Americans in the Lehigh community are feeling anger, outrage and fear in the wake of the violence we have witnessed. I once again ask that we as a Lehigh community recommit to our shared values; reject hatred, bigotry and intolerance; and reflect on what each of us can do, large or small, and how we can come together with hope and determination to create a more just, actively inclusive and equitable community.




I recall, back in early January, thinking about the powerful imagery of the year 2020 and imagining a world where we would have a better and more acute vision of our collective humanity. 

Now, nearly midway through this year, the quest appears even more pressing. Collectively, we are facing the challenge of a lifetime. In the midst of a pandemic, we watch as people across North America mobilize against injustice and racism, provoked in particular by the tragic death of George Floyd one week ago.

Feelings of sadness, anger, fear, and a sense of helplessness are shared by all of us. I recognize that many members of our community, especially our Black students, faculty, and staff, may need support at this time; resources are listed below. 

Yet, in this turbulent moment, it remains critical to remember that our strength lies in our unity and in living the principles that McGill embraces in its mission. Among those principles are equity and inclusiveness. Living these principles means going beyond publicly denouncing racism and other forms of social injustice. We are also called to consider how universities have the responsibility, to confront and work to flatten social inequities through dialogue and the advancement of knowledge. Every one of us shares in this responsibility as we live through a moment in history that calls for leadership and action anchored to knowledge, compassion, and courage.

We are living during a time of profound hurt, anger, frustration and, for many, a time of deep disappointment and despair regarding the recent high-profile violent events targeting Black Americans – the most recent being the inescapable images of George Floyd, dying while a police officer knelt on his neck.   

The shocking events in Minnesota, as well as too many other similar killings in communities including Ahmaud Arbery, killed while jogging, and Breonna Taylor, who was shot to death by police raiding her home, bring much pain, anger and trauma to many members of our community, and we cannot let them go unnoticed or unacknowledged. They are incomprehensible. Unjust. Inhumane.  

First and foremost, as leaders of this university, it is important that we speak out against these atrocities. To our Black students, faculty and staff, know that we both stand with you. The university stands with you.

It is important, as Spartans, that we collectively understand and acknowledge the impact of racism and that the Black community is under attack in many ways right now. In addition to the recent deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and so many others who are targeted because of their skin color, we have a global health pandemic that is powerfully and incontrovertibly revealing the inequities in our society.  

All of this is taking a heavy emotional toll on many of our friends, families and fellow Spartans. These events remind us that we have a responsibility to engage in the work necessary to understand we live in a diverse world and a diverse campus community, and by virtue of this we also have a responsibility to each other to respond to these injustices – acknowledge them, empathize with one another and accept each other.

We are committed to building an inclusive environment here at MSU, one that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. However, this commitment must be manifested in ways that extend well beyond words. We hope you will do what you can as students, faculty and staff at MSU to fight racism, disrupt injustice and actively support each other. The next several months will test our resolve, our community and our nation. 
****tweeted image**



During the past weeks and months, disturbing, racially charged situations and tragic deaths have occurred across the U.S. – including Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, Christian Cooper and most recently George Floyd. We are now witnessing protests in cities across the U.S., some of which have been marked by violence.

On our own campus we also recently experienced the impact of racially charged posts on social media made by incoming freshmen.

One student posted a disturbing video to My Story on Snapchat. A person in the My Story group re-posted it on Twitter. Perhaps the intent of the video can be debated. Its impact cannot.

Another student used an offensive racial slur while engaging in a social media exchange with a black student from her high school.

Many of you have reached out to share the hurt, anger and disbelief you experienced upon watching the video. It demonstrates a disturbing lack of empathy and respect for the death of Mr. Floyd, his family and others who have suffered similarly while in police custody.

Many others have expressed anger and disbelief at the nature and tone of the hurtful social media posts.

After seeing these social media posts and viewing the video, I, too, was horrified. My first impulse was to rescind the offer of admission to these students. But then I was reminded of a couple of things.

Missouri State University is a public university with a public affairs mission.

As a public university we are legally required to uphold the principles of free speech embodied in the First Amendment to the Constitution. The video – as hurtful, insensitive and offensive as it is – is protected by the First Amendment, as was the language in the social media posts.

I will admit that it was tempting to ignore the First Amendment in this case. Doing so would violate our legal obligations but, more importantly, it would effectively prevent the university from accomplishing its mission.

Missouri State has a responsibility to educate students on the three pillars of our public affairs mission – ethical leadership, community engagement and cultural competence. The video and the social media posts clearly reveal that these students – and, let’s be honest, many of us – are in desperate need of education, training and experiences that will help us develop cultural consciousness as well as cultural competence.

We cannot expect or require that students come to us fully formed, possessing all of the skills and characteristics that exemplify Citizen Scholars. It is our job and our duty to help them develop these traits through education and exposure.

Recognizing the impact of the video and the social media post, these students have chosen to withdraw from the university. We had planned to allow them to join our campus community in the fall, knowing that this decision would be ridiculed, questioned and second-guessed. But it was under the conditions that they participate in additional education and training to assist them in both understanding the impact of their actions and in developing cultural competence.

Social media is rife with opportunities to damage reputations or hurt thousands of people with one statement or one video. It is important that we are all mindful of its impact and if we choose to participate, to think very carefully before we post.

As one might expect, these students have been bombarded with hate, ridicule and even death threats. Both are 18 years old. While they displayed poor judgement, they don’t deserve to have their lives threatened.

As a university, we are acutely aware that many of our incoming students of all backgrounds may have made poor choices when posting on social media when they were teenagers. These are formative years when people change and grow. As a university, we are not going to police everyone’s social media accounts. We legally cannot and, in my opinion, should not bar a student from entry for offensive comments posted as an adolescent. I believe in grace, redemption and the probability that a college education can change people for the better. It did me.

That being said, we will continue to educate our students on the three pillars of our public affairs mission. And given the current environment, we will continue to give special emphasis to the awareness, knowledge and skills required to be culturally competent in a global society and world.

Thank you for all you do for Missouri State.
We have no tolerance for discrimination or acts of hate in our community. No matter where you come from, no matter your race, gender, identity, preference or perspective, we all come together to learn, and everyone deserves to be treated with respect and to thrive.
At MIT, Commencement is the most beautiful day of the year. Even in this strange pandemic moment, this afternoon’s graduation celebration will offer us all the opportunity to celebrate the wonderful spirit, character and accomplishments of our newest graduates.

That joy is and should be perfect and untouchable.

But I write with a heart that is also full of anguish – because it is impossible to face this particular day without an overwhelming sense of concern for our nation.

The death of George Floyd and the events unfolding in Minneapolis are deeply disturbing in themselves. And of course, they come on the heels of highly charged incidents, from Georgia to New York, that highlight yet again the tragic persistence of racism and systemic injustice in the United States.

I know that the pain of these events is especially intense for certain members of our community, beginning with those who are African American and of African descent, though certainly not ending there. And I know that, in this time of tension around the pandemic and rising strains in US-China relations, others in our community are also suffering distinctive forms of harassment and discrimination.

I imagine that you may share my urgent desire to help, while feeling an awful powerlessness to do so. At this moment, let’s do what we can. I believe a place to begin is by cherishing and seeking to strengthen our dear MIT community. Imperfect, certainly. But a community with an essential commitment to facing hard facts, thoughtfully striving to correct our errors – and working together to address humanity’s greatest challenges. A community where we aspire always to treat one another with sympathy, humility, decency, respect and kindness.

Let us treasure and care for that community – and let us work to make it better.

In the days and months to come, I would like us to find meaningful ways to come together to work on these challenges, for ourselves and for our society. I have asked John Dozier, our Institute Community and Equity Officer, to guide us in this effort. You may reach him directly at jdozier@mit.edu.

For now: I take hope in turning my thoughts to the new graduates we share with the world this afternoon. Today is our beloved Commencement day, a day when we honor the achievements of our graduating students and charge them with helping to heal the world. That charge will be all the more meaningful now, grounded in the very present struggles for our nation and for the world.

With great love and concern for our community and our nation,
There are events in our days that define our lives as well as our national consequence. We are witnessing one of such moments of definition as individuals and as a nation.

Just starting to emerge from the disorienting experiences provoked by a debilitating pandemic, last week we learned about the tragedy of George Floyd, an African American man who died lying on a street in Minneapolis, while pleading for his life. This past Sunday in Bozeman, community leaders, including MSU students, thoughtfully organized a peaceful demonstration that brought together thousands in support of Black Americans and all people of color, while committing to take on the challenge of dismantling racism, seeking justice and promoting peace. I am proud to see our community members making their voices heard in peaceful, productive ways in an effort towards positive change.

At this historic hour, we stand with our students, faculty and staff of color and with every individual - irrespective of race, ethnicity and gender - who is feeling fear, anger and pain because of these events. You are not alone and we see you.

Our heart also goes out to people who are victimized and caught in the confusion created by others who want to take advantage of this situation to sow discord and destruction. We cannot condone violence in any of its senseless expressions.

We have a responsibility - and the opportunity - to work together to address the injustice and inequality that our founding as a public university sought to eradicate. As the land-grant institution of the state, your Montana State University is committed to maximizing access and success for everyone, to finding lasting solutions, and to build a better world and a more just society.

In these times more than ever, we see the value and urgency of the power of education, diversity and community. In the coming weeks, there will be opportunities for MSU students, faculty, staff and neighbors to participate in conversation and action, as part of our mission to engage with the communities we serve. As one of our institutional documents proudly proclaims, "We believe that excellence at Montana State University is best achieved through a culture of intellectual and personal growth that is diverse and inclusive."

Let us come together as one people to create an environment in which our differences are the source of our strength. 



For as long as I live, I will never forget the horrific video of Mr. George Floyd being woefully asphyxiated by the knee of a morally bankrupt officer of the law. For what seemed like an eternity, we witnessed Mr. Floyd's very breath being extinguished from him. His cries of "mama" and "I can't breathe" fell empty on the ears of the callous and cold-hearted officer. I have not been able to sleep restfully since witnessing this tragedy.

I know our community is hurting, yet again, at the sight of another unarmed young Black man die at the hands of those sworn to protect and serve. I know our blood is boiling and our emotions are high. Believe me, I truly understand! As the father of a young Black man, and as an uncle and a great uncle to scores of other young men, I have great empathy for the families who endure such atrocities of civil and human rights. No family should ever have to experience the loss of a loved one in such a brutal and overtly racist manner.

Even in light of what I've said, I say to all of us, let's stand up for the value of our lives, but if you feel compelled to protest this great injustice, please do so peacefully and with the best interest of your fellow man and woman. We must triple our efforts to rid our society of racism—which, seemingly, in the modern era, has resulted in a practice that Black male lives, in particular, are dispensable.

Go forward and voice your collective stand against injustice with vigor, passion and solidarity in the true Morgan tradition, but as you do, please do so peacefully.

United in equality and humanity,


Research and data clearly show that structural racism and the experience of day-to-day racism result in significant and compounding negative health impacts for people of color. We will highlight these data over the next few weeks and hope you will follow along.
Racism and associated health impacts.



The death of George Floyd has brought us to a point of inflection throughout our country, and it has done so for multiple reasons.

Mr. Floyd's death was captured on video, so we have been forced to see a truth we would rather not believe. That video is both heartbreaking and infuriating. No decent person could watch the extermination of a helpless human being in such a callous manner without experiencing feelings of true anger and despair.

We all have seen this story before, and far too frequently. We have watched as many, particularly men of color, have lost their lives to violence and hate. The circumstances may change, as may the individuals involved, but the result is devastatingly consistent.

Yes, we all have tried to say the right things after these incidents--we have expressed our disgust as well as our grief and sympathy.

Have we DONE the right things, though?

Have we challenged racism and ignorance, even when we see it expressed subtly in "polite company" by those we would consider to be colleagues or friends? Have we honestly questioned and explored our own biases and how they shape our behaviors? Have we worked hard enough to create diversity, and with it greater understanding of and appreciation for one another, throughout our networks and organizations? Have we been guilty of, despite our best intentions, moving on to the next crisis of the day and failing in our commitment to make positive change?

I have struggled to find the right words at this time, and to posit some answers for how we sustain the necessary systemic change. Maybe the questions I posed in the previous paragraph must be examined with unvarnished candor, thereby affecting our individual actions, our willingness to speak out and, as a result, affect those around us while strengthening our efforts to achieve systemic change.

I am extremely proud to be part of a richly diverse university community that is strengthened by its diversity. I believe NJIT serves as an example of what most communities should strive for, but that does not mean we can pretend what we have seen is not our problem. It is our problem, and we have a responsibility that we cannot shirk. Please join me in committing to not let this moment pass without becoming better as individuals and as a community. I welcome your thoughts and suggestions for how to accomplish those goals. My thoughts and prayers are with the family of George Floyd and all those who feel angry, sad, and powerless at this time. We must work hard to resolve the issue of racism thoughtfully, peacefully, and with accountability for those who disregard the value of life of our fellow Americans.

Once again, we find ourselves filled with sorrow, outrage, and grief over a loss of yet another Black person's life at the hands of law enforcement that was tragic, unjust, and avoidable. There have been numerous appalling events over the last few weeks during an already difficult time—a pandemic. While it is hard to find words to describe the shocking ghastliness of the videoed last minutes of George Floyd's life on a Minneapolis street, with a police officer's knee on his neck, the poignant and unheeded pleas of Mr. Floyd and the bystanders—as in previous occurrences—remain haunting. His cries tear at our hearts, just as the knowledge that events like this seem to happen again and again and again rips not only at our conscience but at what we all consider to be a just and humane society.

This is one of those moments when reason and knowledge and discourse, which university citizens prize so highly, often doesn't seem like enough of a response. How could they be, when these deaths keep recurring, and when racism continues to manifest itself, even in our own community?

But reason, discourse, study, evidence, analysis—those are our tools, and events like the killing of George Floyd should not cause us to set them aside, but instead to redouble our exertions to use them in the cause of addressing racism, xenophobia, violence, and hate to underscore social justice, human dignity, inclusion, and peace. Many of our scholars already study the issues so evident in the Floyd video—inequality, race, and the inequities of the criminal justice system. Over the summer, I will be examining—and I am sure this will be true for many of you, too—how else our University might contribute to the goal of creating more just practices and systems. In the meantime, on behalf of the NYU community, I offer our University's sympathies to the family and loved ones of George Floyd, with whom we grieve for his lost life and the unspeakable suffering to which he was subjected, as well all of those impacted by this and the other terrible recent events. To deal with these types of issues while simultaneously navigating a pandemic that is giving rise to differential impacts on communities of color, and in particular, those of African descent, is especially oppressive.

Finally, my heart goes out to those in our own community who have been feeling overwhelmed by grief or apprehension because of fear for their own safety, their families, and loved ones. I want to remind you that NYU stands with you, and we have resources to help: for students at the Wellness Exchange, and for employees through Carebridge. And please also note that the Office of Global Inclusion (OGI) continues to plan events for the community.



As I write this, cities across the country, including here in Greensboro and around North Carolina, are ablaze in unrest and souls in anguish over George Floyd’s death at the hands of Minneapolis police. It was a scene, unfortunately, like many we have seen before, in which the life of an African American man is extinguished in a confrontation that, at minimum, could have been deescalated; at best, avoided entirely. It leaves millions of us around our nation with a reasonable and just question: Why? In the absence of an acceptable answer – and to be clear, there is no acceptable answer – we are left with heavy hearts, sick with grief, inflamed with anger.   

I join the Aggie family in grieving the loss of George Floyd and in voicing a commitment that his death cannot be allowed to pass in vain. As the leader of the nation’s largest historically black university, an institution borne of the bigotry connected by a straight line of history to Floyd’s death, I appreciate the weight of this moment on the shoulders of our students, their families, our faculty and staff and our alumni. As we collectively bear witness to this injustice, we do so from the vantage point of our university, and the tools and knowledge we can bring to bear in this moment of pain and despair. What can our faculty and students do to bring understanding and context to this incident? What measures of change and solution can their scholarly work make clear? What light can they shed on intersecting dynamics of race, the criminal justice system, history, economics and the human psyche that will illuminate truth for a troubled nation? 

In the weeks and months ahead, I pray that the moral imperative of this moment will not fade, and that we will rise to the challenges that our leadership has prepared us to meet. If the aftermath of George Floyd’s death is, indeed, not to be mere protest but a predicate for change in which minds, hearts, policies and practices are forever altered, it will only do so if it is nourished by knowledge and truth. Let us commit ourselves collectively to surfacing those invaluable ingredients of change. 

For now, I encourage all of us to avail ourselves of the community and family ties that bind us at A&T. Lean on one another for comfort, and don’t be afraid to reach out if you are struggling. For our students, additional help is available through Counseling Services at 336-334-7727, Monday through Friday, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. For faculty and staff, the university’s Employee Assistance Program services provider, ComPsych Guidance Resources, is here for you at 866-511-3373, password: NCAT. This service is confidential and free of charge to you as an employee.
I write today as a leader of one of the nation's Historically Black Colleges and Universities. First, I would like to express my deep condolences to the family of Mr. George Floyd who was killed by Minneapolis, Minnesota, police officers on May 25, 2020. On behalf of North Carolina Central University, I join citizens from across our nation and around the world in expressing deep concern about this blatant tragedy and condemning its perpetrators. This incident highlighted how equality and justice are not fairly dispensed in our country. 

We are all incensed by the disturbing images of African Americans whose lives have been taken violently across the nation. As we grieve and try to make sense of these tragic deaths and incidents, we also seek reassurance that justice will be served swiftly and those who are responsible will be held accountable. 

As a community of students, faculty, and staff, we must together call for the restructuring of our judicial system to create one that dispenses justice equally, regardless of racial, ethnic or sexual orientation. As an institution that was founded by a visionary and fearless leader, this university represents the values that Dr. James E. Shepard exhibited with incredible fortitude and strength as he built a progressive learning institution for African Americans in Durham in the early 1900s. Intent on his mission despite the history of oppression that African Americans and other communities of color had faced, Dr. Shepard demonstrated that no obstacle is insurmountable.

The events surrounding us today represent another moment in history when silence and status-quo are no longer acceptable. I ask you to appeal to our local, state and federal leaders to address the ongoing pattern of racial injustice and disparities that exist within our society and embrace public policies that can truly achieve this country's ideals.

I am counting on each of you, as Eagles, to lead us in seeking a more perfect union. As Dr. King said in his historic "I Have a Dream"speech in 1963, we all seek to live in a nation where we will not be judged by the color of our skin, but by the content of our character.  NCCU continues to uphold and nurture an environment of diversity and inclusion that celebrates and respects all voices and opinions.

Students, faculty and staff: In this painful time, I urge you to take advantage of the resources made available in your university community. I encourage students to contact the Counseling Center if you need assistance dealing with this very difficult moment. Faculty and staff may access the Employee Assistance Program to learn about assistance options available. 

Together, let us keep on pursuing a peaceful quest for equality and justice in the days, weeks and months to come. I hope each of you remain secure in knowing the NCCU community is standing by your side. 
he inhumane and unjust circumstances surrounding the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis on Monday have left many in our community, myself included, feeling deep sorrow, frustration and understandable anger. Over the weekend we’ve witnessed this grief and anger displayed in many ways, including a peaceful protest in Raleigh, and unfortunately, separate acts of vandalism against many of our local businesses that have done so much to help build a culture of inclusion in our community.

As a higher education community dedicated to thought and action that improves the world around us, we condemn acts of racism, discrimination and violence.

In the course of the past few months, we have again witnessed more instances of violence against people of color – including Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery – that serve as a continual and painful reminder that unjust racial disparities continue in our country. How could we not be sorrowful, and angry, at this moment? It is past time for drastically needed and rightful change.

We must acknowledge that a person’s race is still too often used to determine how they will be treated in almost every aspect of American life. And as a leading U.S. institution of higher education, we are committed to our critical role in helping right the injustices of racism and discrimination. I believe higher education can and should be a positive influence on lives well beyond academic instruction, and that we need to help lead the way forward toward equality, equity and justice for all in our country.

As the state’s largest public university, we have the responsibility to educate ourselves and those who pass through our doors to overcome ignorance, unite against intolerance, model inclusivity, and advance the dignity and power of diversity.

The events of this week must serve as a catalyst for all in our community to be unequivocally dedicated to building an inclusive environment that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. I remain committed to that goal, and expect you will do all you can in your role at NC State – as a student, faculty or staff member, or friend of the university – to eliminate racism and all other forms of discrimination.

As members of this intellectual community, I strongly encourage all of us to fight for positive change powerfully, thoughtfully and peacefully. I also encourage each of us to embrace with humility that we all have more to learn as it relates to understanding our own places of prejudice and how we can strive to overcome how these impact our own actions.

As Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity Sheri Schwab wrote in her recent Statement Regarding the Events in Minneapolis (if you haven’t yet read it, please do), Provost Arden and I have charged a task force to ensure advancing diversity, inclusion and well-being is inherent and represented in every aspect of NC State’s next 10-year Strategic Plan. We’ll be finalizing the plan over the summer, and encourage our community to provide your feedback via the Strategic Plan Task Force website.

Over the summer, I’ll also be working with Vice Provost Schwab and other university leaders to ensure opportunities for vital community discussions and feedback opportunities related to diversity and inclusion on campus when we return in the fall, in whatever format those need to take in the new COVID-19 environment.

In the meantime, please keep up with important diversity-and-inclusion-related news, events, announcements and opportunities to get involved by subscribing to the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity’s (OIED) Diversity Digest. Also, review the Diversity web portal from the university’s homepage to find education and training resources, diversity and inclusion programs, details about NC State’s Campus Community Centers, an events calendar and more important information.

NC State’s greatest strength is its people – all its people – and their diversity of thought and experience. It is on each and all of us to fight injustice and advance a truly diverse, inclusive and supportive environment for all on our campus and well beyond. That’s what it means to be part of this Wolfpack.
As a result of the events of the past week, we are writing to express support for all of us who may be struggling to understand and react and in particular our students and colleagues of color who may be experiencing pain and anguish.

North Dakota State University has clearly stated values in denouncing discrimination, harassment and retaliation as integral to our success as a student-focused, land-grant, research university.

What that means in difficult times is we support one another any way we can. We listen, we work to understand, we actively work together toward a more inclusive and accepting community for all of us.

More formally, we remind our community of support available through the following sources:

• Confidential resources to support students are available through the NDSU Counseling Center.

• Educational and reporting resources related to equity and inclusion may be found here.

• Confidential resources to support faculty and staff are available through the Employee Assistance Program.

• The University Ombuds is a resource for faculty members, graduate students and academic staff.

We also encourage us all to continue efforts to increase our understanding by reading, asking questions, listening and welcoming one another. 
We have heard the chorus of raised voices demanding that we make real, at last, the promise of American democracy for the many millions of African-Americans who have given so much to build it. We feel, in the words of Dr. King, "The fierce urgency of now."

On Monday, June 8, we will suspend all classes and close all administrative and academic offices on all of our campuses. We will use this time and space—exactly two weeks after the unjust and inhumane killing of George Floyd—to hold a Day for Reflection, Engagement, and Action. We will join together in unity with those all around the world who are grieving and angry over persistent injustice toward African-American citizens.

We will begin with an online vigil at 11 a.m. to remember George Floyd and all African-Americans whose lives have been brutally taken from us. At 2 p.m., we will feature a conversation with Professor of Law Margaret Burnham, founder of Northeastern's Civil Rights and Restorative Justice Project, on ways we can move forward together.

In the days that follow, we will commence a series of virtual town halls on race and justice led by Deans Uta Poiger and James Hackney, co-chairs of the Presidential Council on Diversity and Inclusion.

On June 19, we will gather on all of our campuses for a Day of Solidarity. June 19, often known as "Juneteenth"or Freedom Day, is traditionally a day to celebrate the emancipation of slaves in the U.S. We will gather together to listen, to speak, and to engage one another in advancing the cause of justice.

These events are just the beginning of a series of specific actions that Northeastern will undertake.

It is important to note that we won't always get it right. We won't always find the right words. But we must work together to address the pain. We must find the solidarity that we as a society—and as fellow human beings—so desperately need right now.

There is no time to waste. Working together in mutual trust and understanding to achieve the change that we seek, let us begin.
I felt outrage and disgust watching video of the fatal mistreatment of George Floyd in Minneapolis. 

And I was further sickened this morning when our recent graduate, CNN's Omar Jimenez, was arrested live on television for, as Medill Dean Charles Whitaker described it, "the sin of doing journalism."

Our Northwestern community grieves for the many ways in which our society tolerates and facilitates injustices, demonstrated so vividly in these and other recent events. 

Dean Whitaker poignantly expressed his personal pain as a father of African-American sons. Many of the rest of us can barely begin to imagine the personal toll that racism takes on marginalized communities every single day. But we can all increase our resolve to create a Northwestern community, and a world, where all people are accorded the dignity and the safety they deserve. 

Our nation must do better, and I pledge that I, and our university, will work toward that end.
The recent killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and now George Floyd are heartbreaking tragedies that further show the injustice and systemic racism the Black community faces every day. It's been hard to find the right words for this message because I keep imagining the images and videos capturing these horrific acts and the Black community struggling to be heard when crying out for justice and peace. My heart goes out to the families, friends, and those directly or indirectly impacted.

Blatant acts of racism, hatred, and police brutality should not be normalized again.  Unfortunately, we have been here before.  Many of us remember the recent names… Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice, Eric Garner, Sandra Bland, Atatiana Jefferson, Botham Jean, Philando Castile, and now Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and George Floyd, all victims of a shameful legacy of hate.  We must continue to say the names of those lost to senseless acts of violence and racism.

"I can't breathe"were some of the last words from Mr. Floyd before his life was taken right before our eyes. They were also the last words of Eric Garner in 2014. It is suffocating to exist in a space where Black lives are considered disposable with little hope for real systematic change. I pose this question: "what are we going to do to advocate for equity for our communities and nation?"
 
As a Society within this society, we want to see justice.  We want it in the cases dominating the news but also for the 99.9% of cases most of us will never hear about.  We expect justice to be dispatched swiftly and equitably, according to the law, and not influenced by income, race, or connections.  However, we would also like to see that equality extended to our educational institutions – at every level and to companies and industries solving our countries' most complex problems.  We should not be marginalized; as descendants of those who helped build this nation, we seek full participation in all aspects of society with a fair chance to help make America a more perfect union. 

Of course, we recognize that radical change requires allies; Black people do not have the numbers or resources to bring about systemic change alone.  So, we call on those who believe everyone deserves a chance to fulfill their potential to provide opportunities, to open doorways and create pathways for those who did not have access to the resources that produce advantages.  Finally, we ask those who believe in the mission of the National Society of Black Engineers to invest in this cause so our members can thrive and continue to be agents of positive change.

Now is the time for the conversation.  Now is the time for understanding.  This is the perfect time in history for our country to embrace national ideals for all of its citizens.  We implore righteous people to honor and protect our inalienable rights to liberty, opportunity, and equality. 

We cannot remain silent at a time like this.  We must call for political action to invoke social change, to end police brutality, and dismantle systemic racism.  We are not powerless. Nelson Mandela put it best when he said, "education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world."We encourage all NSBE members and allies to take action and let your voices be heard... mentor, vote, make calls, write, participate, post, march… be the example.

NSBE is compiling a list of health, grief, and wellness support resources to assist our members in coping with all of these troubling events; that information will be provided in another official communication.  Moreover, we are developing a team of leaders to create ways for our organization to use its platform to speak out on social justice issues.  Above all, I ask you to hold on to hope, to seek refuge in faith, and the knowledge that we will get to the other side of this bleak moment.  Together, we will overcome this adversity, as we have in the past, and continue our march toward a more just society. 

Continue to encourage one another, support one another, listen to one another, and love one another. In closing, NSBE loves you, and your life matters!   


We typically share with you a weekend email update on various COVID-19 related issues. We will send the update on Monday this week. 

I ask instead that we use this weekend to reflect on the horrific events of the past week and specifically on what we as individuals, as a community, and as a nation must do to prevent crimes like this from happening again. What can we do to make things different? 

George Floyd suffered a horrendous and completely unnecessary death. His killing, and those that have come before, demand that we create a different future. This can and must be our task. 

This time, we must act. That starts with dialogue, which I have renewed with key community partners. We must reaffirm our commitment as Buckeyes to our university values of inclusion, diversity and tolerance.

Today, let us also act by reflecting on what’s in our hearts and directing our activities to collaborative efforts to produce lasting change. 
Like many of you, we are deeply saddened by the acts of brutality our country has witnessed in recent days. These images and stories are painful reminders of the persistence of racial tension in our country, and they reaffirm the urgent need to stand in solidarity with our community members of color, especially African American community members.

As Directors within OHIO’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion, we understand the limitations of a statement like this at a time when many in our community are hurting so deeply. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to pose extraordinary challenges, made even more challenging by the images of violence we see flashing across our screens.

At the same time, we know that some of you may derive great benefit from campus resources to support your psychological and emotional well-being. For this reason, we encourage all of you to seek out campus resources that can provide support and encouragement to Ohio University community members. Some of them are highlighted below:

Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS)

CPS provides mental health and adjustment services to students and also consultation to faculty, administrators and parents who support our students.

Psychiatry and individual counseling through face-to-face video conferencing or audio phone therapy are just some of the services available to students through CPS.

Staff members in CPS also make referrals to a wide range of support services both on and off campus. Students may contact CPS at any time by calling 740-593-1616. If calling after hours, press 1 to be connected to a counselor. You can also visit their website at www.ohio.edu/student-affairs/counseling.

IMPACT Student Support Meetings

OHIO students are encouraged to email diversity@ohio.edu to express interest in attending an IMPACT meeting, which is a support group convened for any Ohio University student who wishes to discuss special issues that may be impacting our community of students.

These meetings are facilitated by Dr. Kristyn Neckles, psychologist and embedded clinician for our Division of Diversity and Inclusion, on a by-request basis. 

Employee Assistance Program

Ohio University's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and Work/Life program is offered through Impact Behavioral Healthcare Services.

The EAP is available to all Ohio University employees and their family members.

Visit Impact Employee Assistance (opens in a new window)(opens in a new window)and enter 'ohiouniversity' as the username under the heading Member Login to access informational materials and resources.

Program features include confidential 24/7 live professional assistance (1-800-227-6007) and more.

OHIO’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion remains unwavering in our commitment to offering support and safety so all Bobcats in their diverse identities and experiences can find support for their concerns, worries, and fears.

All staff members in our offices — the LGBT Center, the Multicultural Center, the Office of Multicultural Student Access and Retention/OMSAR, and the Women’s Center — stand ready to offer whatever support we can to our OHIO community as we work together to create a world that is safe, equitable, and compassionate for all. We are here for you - please do not hesitate to reach out to us if we can be of assistance.

In times like these, community is the strongest antidote we have to combat isolation and loneliness. You are not alone!
We are disheartened by the racial injustices in our country & hope justice is swiftly served for the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery & victims of senseless violence. To our Black students/employees—we see you, we hear you, we support you. Your voices matter.
I know our Monarch community joins me in expressing our collective outrage regarding the horrific and senseless killing of George Floyd. We send prayers to his family as well as our hopes that his tragic death will create not just a nationwide conversation, but a commitment from every member of American society to say "No more" to what we observed in Minneapolis or, before that, in Georgia. As a diverse and inclusive campus, we must continue to do our collective best to demonstrate for the world that at Old Dominion University we strive to learn from differences, leading to a greater understanding of one another.

 The primary role of police in America is to provide for the safety of all people by protecting them from criminals and to hold each of us accountable to the law. We expect police to apprehend criminals and work within the legal system to make certain that justice is blind and all are held accountable to the law.

We all have watched in horror videos being replayed over the past week showing the life of George Floyd brutally taken from him by a white police officer in Minneapolis, Minn., while three other officers sworn to uphold the law looked on in indifference. The officer who killed Mr. Floyd was arrested and all four of the officers were fired, but the other three officers simply went home.

Sadly, this horrific event is just the latest in a seemingly endless stream of acts of violence against Black and other people of color by police who are sworn to protect and serve them.

Mr. Floyd’s death comes on the heels of the Feb. 23 fatal shooting of Ahmaud Arbery by armed white residents as he was out jogging in a neighborhood in South Georgia. As well, the March 13 death of Breonna Taylor, who was shot in her Louisville, Ky. home by police. And the reporting to police last week of an African American man threatening a white woman when in fact he was in New York City’s Central Park to watch birds and simply asked her to keep her dog on a leash.

We continually hear speeches and testimonials about how unacceptable and terrible these acts are and how our leaders feel the pain of the Black community. Yet, nothing changes much and we act as if these horrific events are singular or isolated events. But these are not one-offs. They are the product of a failed justice system that perpetuates racism in America and too often a culture of silence within police forces that protects incompetent and hateful people simply because they wear the badge. We are condemned to relive these tragedies unless we make real change a priority throughout this country.

America must be a land of personal and equal freedom, safety and opportunity for all people. And to be certain, the police exist to protect us from predators and not to control us. That attitude should be universal in this country regardless of who we are, where we live or what we look like.

But how can we expect America and all people who live here — including communities of color — to thrive in the midst of such violence and injustice? How many times must we write the same messages expressing our outrage and hurt, sharing our thoughts and prayers for those harmed, and pleading for an end to injustice? How many acts of discrimination, injury and death must occur before our country confronts the realities of the lived experiences of people of color in our society? All of this must stop and that requires action not speeches.

Policing is a local function, but our system of policing requires systematic change across the country. On Monday, I will write the National Governors Association and urge the association and other groups to develop rules, training programs and disciplinary codes for appropriate policing to be enforced throughout America and for unions to step up and support the justice system in weeding out bad officers. Most police are good, dedicated, under-paid and hard working men and women, who risk their lives every day for the well-being of all people. They deserve our thanks and respect and they should not be subject to public scorn because we are incapable of holding some police accountable to the laws of our country and communities simply because they wear a badge.  

As a university community, we must join together to ensure that all members of the OSU community — students, faculty, staff and visitors — not only feel welcomed and safe, but experience our community as a place to thrive. Each and every member of our community must know they are valued, that they belong here, and that we celebrate the rich diversity that they bring to Oregon State University. We should not tolerate anything less. 

Our new police chief, Edgar Rodriguez understands that police must be a community partner that provide a sense of safety in the university and broader community.  As we hire officers for our police force, the Office of Institutional Diversity will continue to provide training to OSU public safety officers on implicit bias, foundations of power, privilege and oppression to ensure that our public safety practices are congruent with OSU’s values regarding inclusivity and opposing oppression. University leaders also will to seek to achieve agreements with police agencies in communities where OSU operates so that we may mutually advance inclusive justice for all people. 

The novel coronavirus pandemic has made all of us look at the inequities in our society. We call people essential workers and yet we systematically pay them less than living wages and deny them critical health care and quality education for themselves and their children, and we act surprised that they are disproportionately vulnerable to death from the COVID-19 pandemic because of pre-existing conditions and that they are disproportionately people of color. When do we get disgusted enough with what we have created and say enough? 

We have a policing problem in America, but it is part of a much deeper and broader failure of this society to live up to the promise of America, which continually eludes us.

As I prepare to step down as university president on June 30, I am confident that our university and the OSU community are in the right hands with incoming president King Alexander. He and I talk often and I know he shares my personal values and leadership commitment to inclusivity, safety and opportunity for all. I know that as OSU’s next president, he will be unwavering in helping advance the work of inclusive justice and opportunity for all that must be part of life within OSU — and across America.  Together with Chief Rodriguez, he will help us move in the right direction in our little part of the world.

In closing, I ask that each of us continue to participate in dialogue, leadership and understanding as we seek to alter the direction of society. I know this will not happen overnight, but by God it needs to happen soon. 
 It has been ten days since the world saw the video of George Floyd dying while a white police officer pressed his knee into Floyd's neck. It has been a week since protests began around the country and across New York, convulsing the city. Yesterday, hundreds if not thousands of New Yorkers gathered in Brooklyn, and then marched across the Brooklyn Bridge past One Pace Plaza, in a moving commemoration of Floyd's life. We join in mourning his loss.
 
During this time, we have been listening to the Pace Community and hearing the pain, anguish, and anger. We are reflecting on our commitments, talking with our Student Government Associations and Black Student Unions, and determining how we can move the University forward while doing more to fight for equality and justice. We know we haven't always gotten it right, and we want to do better.
 
We recognize that Floyd's death is not an isolated case. It has been three and a half months since Ahmaud Arbery was shot and killed while out for a jog; nearly three months since Breonna Taylor was shot and killed by police who'd broken into her apartment; ten days since Tony McDade was shot and killed by police investigating a stabbing. It will soon be 10 years since Danroy "DJ"Henry, a Pace student and football star, was shot and killed by a police officer in Pleasantville. We mourn those losses, too. We know there is much to be done. We are remembering and relearning the words of Angela Davis: "It is not enough to be non-racist, we must be anti-racist."
 
At Pace University, we are committed to being unbiased and anti-racist across our institution.
 
We are committed to hearing from all voices and empowering all parts of our community.
 
We are committed to standing up for what is right.
 
In the last academic year, we hired Pace's first chief diversity officer and established the new Division of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. That Division worked to update our hiring practices to mitigate bias and increase diversity, and it centralized key offices to streamline and focus their important work. There is much, much more to be done.
 
Today, we are committing to the following actions:
 

    We will establish a Presidential Task Force, composed of students, staff, faculty, and alumni and funded by the President's Office, to examine the Pace experience for all in our Community, including those who are Black, those who are brown, and those from other historically underrepresented groups. Under the guidance of the chief diversity officer, in partnership with other campus leaders, and guided by the findings of the forthcoming Diversity Climate Survey, the Presidential Task Force will design a plan with short- and long-term strategies for a more equitable and just Pace University. It will welcome input from all parts of the Pace Community. The Presidential Task Force will be formulated in the coming weeks and will issue its recommendations by the end of fall semester.

 

    We recognize that voices need to be heard and action needs to happen everywhere across the University, and we ask departments and divisions to review their areas to develop long-term commitments for systemic change. These recommendations will be developed by October 1, 2020, and forwarded to the Presidential Task Force for inclusion in the University's comprehensive plan.

 

    We will soon launch a reporting site on which members of the Pace Community can register incidents or experiences contradictory to the inclusive environment we seek to sustain. This site will launch during fall semester. Whether reported on this site or elsewhere, University leaders will always investigate and respond to incidents that are brought to our attention.

 

    In the next week, we will organize a community forum, modeled on this week's session for faculty and staff, in which all members of the Pace Community will be invited to share their experiences and their visions for how Pace can make a difference.

 

    We will design a comprehensive series of programming for the fall semester to examine racial justice in our community and our country, including honoring the memory of DJ Henry as we mark 10 years since his murder.

 
We welcome all in the Pace Community who wish to serve on the Presidential Task Force. Its agenda will not be set by the administration; it will be set by the community. The Presidential Task Force will convene in the coming weeks. If you're interested in serving on it, please contact diversity@pace.edu .
 
We had planned a Diversity Climate Survey for last semester, to capture critical voices and experiences to inform the work of the DEI Division. It will be launched when we return to campus. 
 
Fall programming already in development includes the Our Pledge Against Oppression discussion series, featuring panels on working toward anti-racism and examining race and the prison-industrial complex and a symposium on the absence of Black and Latina/o/x intellectual communities in academia; a teach-in series rooted in critical race theory; a social justice reading club; and the annual MLK lecture.
 
We have also compiled a list of resources to answer the question, "What can I do?"It is available at www.pace.edu/takeaction .
 
We know that this is just a start. But we are committing to do the work, and we will use these first steps as a basis for our future plans. We will have more information for you soon on next week's Zoom meeting, and more detail forthcoming on the Presidential Task Force and fall programming.
 
We have always believed that Pace's strength lies in its community. Despite the many and enormous challenges currently facing us, we still believe that. Let's stand up for each other, listen to each other, and work together to build an even better Pace. 



The tragic circumstances surrounding the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis, following other recent unspeakable tragedies, makes clear yet again that systemic discrimination and unjust racial disparities continue to plague our country. It is past time for change.

We cannot remain silent in the face of this heart-breaking reality. As an institution of higher education, we have an obligation to fight ignorance and intolerance, model inclusivity and embrace the power that diversity represents. 

In the face of hatred and bias, we must speak out. We must not accept apathy, indifference or silence, otherwise we allow hatred, prejudice and intolerance to grow. 

Our message today is, foremost, one of profound compassion for all who live in fear that the color of their skin, gender identity, ethnicity or religion makes them a target of hate. Our hearts ache as we can only imagine the trauma, pain and frustration that many are feeling at this time. 

This message also reaffirms Penn State’s commitment to disrupting hate, bias and racism whenever and wherever we encounter it, and to creating the most inclusive and diverse community that we possibly can – one that is free of discrimination; one that embraces differences; and one that respects all individuals. 

We support our community as you express your sadness and anger through peaceful protest, and we know it is even more challenging to support and lift each other up during this global pandemic, with the added difficulty of social distancing. However, please know that our entire University community grieves with you, supports you and joins with you as we strive for positive change. 

Our country has witnessed with horror the untimely deaths of George Floyd and Ahmaud Arbery, black men whose deaths have come even as we struggle to absorb the disproportionate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on minoritized communities. All around us, people of color are dying at a higher rate, making further visible the structural inequities that pervade every area of the American experience. 

As Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz said, "These are things that have been brewing in this country for 400 years."

It is easy to feel overwhelmed by these events and give in to despair. But we must not give up because we know that inaction supports injustice, inequity and racism. 

We must deepen our work to make our community one where justice and equity are central to who we are. We must work towards equity and justice at Portland State, in Portland, in Oregon, in America, and across the world. It will take intentional and collective action to dismantle systemic structures of oppression. 

We stand with communities in Minnesota and Georgia calling for justice, and we affirm our commitment to doing our own work to ensure that justice and equity are a core part of all of PSU.

Today, and always, black lives matter. 






Leebron: We must act to reduce deadly discrimination and racism
SPECIAL TO RICE NEWS – JUNE 1, 2020
POSTED IN: CURRENT NEWS, FEATURED STORIES


Share23
Rice President David Leebron sent the following message to the university community May 30:

President David Leebron
President David Leebron

We draw many things from being a community. We do things collaboratively. We define and share our values. We take collective joy in our successes. We commiserate when there are reasons for sadness. And we come together in times of crisis and danger.

Over the summer, when our students and also to some extent our faculty are dispersed, the immediate sense of community and our ability to rely on it is diminished. This year that is even more so since our education has been completely online since March. And although our students may still be seeing each other in classes on screens, many of the casual interactions that build our connections to each other no longer take place.

There is of course great sadness sweeping across our world and our country because of the pandemic. Many have lost friends and family members. Many more are living in isolation and under constant threat of danger to their health. Tens of millions have lost their jobs, and collectively our country is facing a level of unemployment and financial distress we have not seen in 90 years. And these burdens have fallen unequally on different communities.

And yet, amid all of that, there is now a deep pang of pain sweeping across America that cries out for recognition, that demands that our voices be heard.

Just three weeks ago I wrote on Twitter about the horrific shooting of Ahmaud Arbery, who was killed while jogging in the coastal city of Brunswick, Georgia, in late February. In mid-March, Breonna Taylor, a young emergency medical technician in Louisville, Kentucky, was killed in her apartment when police entered. And last week, George Floyd was killed in Minneapolis when an arresting officer knelt on his throat for over eight minutes.

pull quote

What these recent cases, and others, have in common is that they all involved victims who were black Americans. Black Americans who were treated as a threat when they weren’t. Black Americans who were treated as if they did not belong in a place when they did. Black Americans who were treated as if they were not a vital part of the fabric of this nation when they have fought and died and sacrificed for it as much as any others. Black Americans who were killed when the circumstances provided no justification.

There is anger and pain and fear across America, not because these are new things to deal with, but because they aren’t. Last fall, for example, Atatiana Jefferson, a young Xavier University graduate working in the pharmaceutical industry, was killed by a police officer who entered her home in Fort Worth, Texas, without identifying himself. The names of these victims are seared in our memories.

For the most part, I write to the campus about events only when they directly involve Rice, and usually when our campus is in session. But occasionally, external events, nearby or far away, are such that they reach deeply into our community and especially affect a valued part of the Rice community. And so although we are currently dispersed and these incidents did not directly involve members of the Rice community, we must acknowledge that these events cause pain and fear to a vital part of our community. It is a pain and fear that many of us have trouble even imagining. Even in the middle of a global pandemic, it is a deep and enduring pain and fear that deserves acknowledgment and caring, and recognition that we must do better.

We must therefore join with our own expressions of concern and sympathy and outrage. We must work to build an inclusive environment, one that respects and values people from different backgrounds. We must take part in efforts to reduce the deadly discrimination and racism that is an unstaunched wound in our national fabric.

And so I write today to convey on behalf of the Rice community, to all of our community, and most especially to the black members of our community, that we acknowledge the sorrow and the fear and the pain. And that we know as a university and as individuals we must contribute to healing that wound.











As an organization committed to being a voice for the under-represented, SHPE denounces all racism. We wholeheartedly support equality and enthusiastically stand with everyone who is committed to diversity, respect, and justice
Even as this flashpoint in the struggle for racial justice unfolds primarily in the US, ours is a global community. Some struggles are more visible in certain geographies over others, owing to histories of oppression, but we fully recognize that members of our community worldwide are faced with a long list of systemic injustices. The task that lies before us is one of weaving equity, inclusion, and solidarity into each of our scholarly and professional activities, so that "diversity and inclusion" are not add-ons, but deeply integrated into our every practice, whether it involves conference processes, volunteering responsibilities, or global community support mechanisms.
Within SIGCHI, we care deeply about addressing discrimination of all kinds. We are committed to bringing down barriers to equal participation — in our community and the many worlds in which we work, but we must do better. It is not enough to not be racist; we must be anti-racist. With this in mind the SIGCHI Executive Committee (EC) is committing to taking the following steps to confront racism and other forms of discrimination and structural inequity.
    Listen and Reflect: We will identify avenues for our community members to share their experiences, observations, and suggestions around representation and existing practices, so that we can all listen actively, reflect, and learn. We will work together with those whose ability to participate is impacted, to identify ways of amplifying these voices. We will organize dialogues with our members so we all may strengthen our approaches to identifying and addressing prevalent forms of discrimination, racial and otherwise.
    Act Locally: Relying on lessons learned through active listening, we will communicate practices for our community to engage and adopt in personal and professional arenas, including in SIGCHI conferences, events, and publications.
        Represent: We will conduct a systematic review of formal SIGCHI policies and regular practices to examine how best we can respond to bias and bring down barriers that obstruct equal participation for any number of reasons. Specifically, we will take a deeper look at our conferences, volunteering, and community support offerings, to assess how our community may be better represented.
Based on our active listening, the SIGCHI EC will identify recommendations by the end of September, report these to the SIGCHI community in writing, and discuss them in a (virtual) town hall before the end of 2020. We will then begin the work towards integrating these short- and long-term recommendations into SIGCHI policies and practices. Throughout this process, we will be transparent and accountable across the SIGCHI community as we work to achieve our long-term commitments.
We are grateful for the initiative that many in our community have taken in these difficult times, to raise voices against deep injustice and extend support to others affected. Still, we urge our membership — those who are able — to reflect individually and together on the ways in which systemic racism and other systems of domination manifest to threaten the principles of equity and inclusion we espouse as a community. Whether it is in our research activities, our industry jobs, or our classrooms, how might we take on the responsibility of initiating the hard conversations? And of creating the safe spaces in which these conversations may have impact? Our search for justice inevitably ties us together as humans; now is the moment for each one of us to ask — how can we move forward together, in solidarity, to effect deep, systemic change?


SFU Stands in Solidarity Against Racism: Statement from the President
June 02, 2020
Recent incidents of anti-Black violence and discrimination in Canada and the United States provide a disturbing reminder of the prevalence of racism within our societies, and have caused much pain, anger and distress for Black students, faculty and staff.

Despite our commitments to human rights, universities like SFU are not immune to anti-Black and anti-Asian racism, nor to discrimination directed against Indigenous peoples.

Only a few weeks ago, I condemned the anti-Asian racism seen in our communities and spoke of our shared obligation to oppose racial discrimination in all its forms.

The events of recent days add further urgency to this cause. Racism has no place in our society, and we have a responsibility not only to condemn discriminatory behaviour, but also to take action to support inclusion for all.

At SFU, this starts with acknowledging the role we play in perpetuating systemic discrimination, and accepting that we have work to do to ensure that our ideals for a just society are reflected in our own practices, policies and procedures.

To this end, last year we appointed an executive team led by Dr. Joy Johnson to develop an action plan to advance equity, diversity and inclusion across the university. Supported by a pan-university advisory council, the group’s mandate is to eliminate systemic barriers and inequities in access, admissions, recruitment, career development, pay, working and learning conditions, resources, retention and progression.
While that work, including data gathering, is underway, we have much more to learn and much more to do. SFU leadership is committed to growth and change, and I am grateful to many for the part they are playing in building a university community where all feel included.

For students, faculty and staff who experience grief, trauma and/or stress resulting from racism and violence, support is available:

Equity, Diversity and Inclusion help and support: https://www.sfu.ca/edi/support.html
Students: Health & Counselling Services 778-782-4615 and our free, 24/7 mental health support program, mySSP. More information on these and other mental health supports here.
Faculty and all staff: Employee and Family Assistance Program:  Homewood Health 1-800-663-1142
Interfaith Centre: 778-782-3180
 
I have been heartened, as I have said many times in recent weeks, by the energy and commitment that SFU students, faculty and staff have shown to keep our community safe from the threat of COVID-19. Let us now apply that same energy and commitment to ensuring that our community is safe from the threat of racism and discrimination.

It’s all of our responsibility to combat racism, but none more so than those of us who have benefited from white privilege.







The events of the last several weeks have left us with a profound sense of grief, anger, and weariness, but also resolve. We grieve with the family and friends of George Floyd, who was killed by the police in Minneapolis. We grieve with countless other families, including those of Ahmaud Arbery, João Pedro Mattos Pinto, and Breonna Taylor, whose loved ones died senseless and inexplicable deaths at the hands of police officers around the globe.
We are angry at the police officers, their supervisors, and public leaders who allow these actions to continue.
We have grown weary from these reports, coming on the heels of the COVID scourge which has affected us all but especially the very same groups that have been targeted by police officers.
But we are resolved. To prevent the senseless deaths of African Americans at the hands of police and the systematic racism and oppression of people of color, we must transform our anger and grief and resolve to act. We must act at every level.
As leaders of a scientific organization that cares deeply about children, we lean into the research that consistently documents the long-lasting negative effects that discrimination, oppression, racism, and implicit bias have on children. We must discover ways to support families and communities in raising children to become peaceful and tolerant citizens.
We must hold our leaders accountable. Today, leaders at the highest levels are sowing division and racism instead of bringing healing and unity.
We must raise up the voices of unity, accountability, and healing that our nation needs. We need to elevate the voices of youth. Through evidence-based programs, we need to equip them for civic engagement and leadership that will bring about the changes that society needs. We need to stand behind and support youth in creating a better future.
Importantly, we must hold ourselves accountable. As members of the Society for Research in Child Development, we must ask ourselves what we can do in our teaching, our research, and our academic work to bring about the needed changes in our society.
At times like this, we must examine our own beliefs, values, and goals. At SRCD, integrating racial, cultural, and economic diversity into the spheres of developmental science is a central strategic goal. We will continue to promote research that illuminates the lived experiences of children of color, especially in these times of increased oppression and racism. SRCD can be counted on to act based on evidence.
Finally, SRCD builds capacity, as a strategic goal. We will raise up the next generation of researchers, inform policymakers, and equip practitioners in ways that lead to healing the broken-hearted, building bridges across the partisan divides, and advancing developmental science to improve human lives -- #WokeScientist.
We cannot do this alone. We must do this in community and in collaboration. SRCD Commons has been created to grow our sense of community. There are portals for members to communicate with each other for support and information. SRCD is hosting chats, webinars, and virtual meetings with parents of children to offer counsel and support.
Let us commit. Never again.



At the heart of the STARS Computing Corps is a commitment to equity and inclusion in computing. We condemn racism. We will continue to incorporate anti-racist frameworks to guide our work for institutional change. We stand with #BlackLivesMatter






The amount of pain and suffering we are witnessing and feeling is only a snapshot of a broader social reality. We, and everyone before us, have had a role in arriving at where we are today. As such, it is of paramount importance to step up and take a stance. It is our responsibility and a moral imperative to not stand by and simply witness the events around us. We must collectively find our voice and reject racism and inequality. Silence perpetuates, doubt reinforces, and rationalization of incident after incident only compounds the pain so many in our society continue to endure.

While CRA has a long history of celebrating, promoting, and advocating for inclusivity, we cannot be satisfied with continuing the status quo. We will continue to actively stand against discrimination and hatred. We will find new ways to use our voice in Washington to advocate for policies that address the inequities that exist in our field. We will amplify the efforts of our membership organizations wherever we can to help them improve the spaces they occupy and create an environment that is more welcoming, just, and equitable to all. Only together can we begin to right the long history of wrongs that have led us to this place and time.

We start with acknowledging the issues by talking to those around us and explicitly stating that we stand with them when they stand against discrimination and hatred.

We know that racism:

    Is systemic and institutionalized, was intentionally designed, and established well before the foundation of our nation.
    Continues to oppress people of color around the world – denying basic human rights, denying opportunity, and even more tragically denying many of their very lives.
    Is learned behavior that may be unlearned through education, compassion, empathy, and action.
    Drives a wedge between communities, and in doing so limits the enviable quest for a society steeped in respect.
    The privileged benefit from its existence and must be willing to sacrifice to overcome it.
    Lives in our homes, schools, workplaces, parks, churches, stores, amusement parks, government, law enforcement – it lives in us all to varying degrees.

To stand against it, we:

    Acknowledge the existence of racism within our communities and commit to defeating it.
    Call out and reject rationalization of incidents and distortion of information.
    Educate ourselves and those around us to be better equipped to address racism in its many forms.
    Stand up against the status quo by using our voice and agency.
    Commit to systemic change in laws, policies, procedures, etc.
    Dedicate all necessary resources to create lasting change
The Society of Women Engineers is angered and saddened by the recent events in Minneapolis that led to the death of George Floyd.  As an organization we vehemently denounce racism!  Systemic racism faced by those of color in our communities across the United States has become all too familiar.  We must stand together to demand justice and work together to turn our pain into purpose.  Nothing will change if those outside the impacted communities stand by and do nothing.  We must be true allies, standing shoulder to shoulder, asking the tough questions of our civic leaders.

To support the increased participation of women and minorities in engineering, SWE became a founding member of the 50K Coalition.  Since 2015, together with the American Indian Science and Engineering Society  (AISES), the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), we have been working together, using the collective impact model, to increase the numbers of engineering graduates from underrepresented populations to 50,000 by 2025.  Moreover, we have Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with the above-mentioned groups supporting initiatives like joint membership, research and public policy.  This year we are working on additional agreements with NOGLSTP, oSTEM and SASE.

We also recognize that as an organization we have our own work to do. The lack of visible diversity in our leadership is palpable.  For the past several years, SWE leadership has focused on creating a more welcoming and inclusive environment within the Society.  While our efforts may not always achieve the goals we have set forth, we cannot hope to accomplish those goals if we do not actively focus on them.  And we acknowledge that as an organization we still have a lot of work to do. 

As an organization we are committed to our diversity and inclusion principles:

    Developing women in engineering across socio economic strata and occupational focus
    Encouraging interest in and active participation of women and girls of underrepresented groups including (but not limited to) African-American, Asian, Hispanic, Pacific Islanders and Native Americans
    Supporting women and respecting their differences in family status, sexual orientation, sexual identity, age and physical ability
    Work collaboratively with men to confront gender bias and create a more inclusive engineering community

This year our SWE Senate has convened a sub-team to address the lack of diversity within our leadership pipeline.  And that work will continue in the next fiscal year.  We want to be solutions-driven.  Our KPI metric dashboard tracks the diversity demographics of both our membership and our leadership. Details will be shared on swe.org and in the State of SWE conducted every spring. We are holding ourselves accountable and we expect our members and partners to hold us accountable as well.

SWE is a place for women of all backgrounds to come together and share unique perspectives and advance both themselves and the field of engineering.

To our diverse members and every woman of color in STEM fields, your voice is important. We want to reiterate that we are an inclusive organization and we need you in order to increase representation in all levels of our profession and SWE leadership. 

Message to Our Community
Saturday, May 30, 2020, By News StaffShare
To the Syracuse University Community,

We write to you in the midst of tremendous pain, sorrow, anger and concern. From scenes in Minnesota, Georgia, New York and beyond, we have witnessed horrific images reminding us that the sting of racism and systemic injustice is real.

Each act of discrimination and violence carries with it a significant and sustained impact, especially among those targeted. George Floyd is a visceral and painful reminder of the unique ways many of us—students, faculty, staff and alumni—have experienced discrimination and violence. We are clearly in the midst of troubled times, and while civic and law enforcement authorities bear a particular responsibility, we of Syracuse University are now presented with a collective and crucial opportunity.

We recognize the hate and terror that continues to infect each and every corner of our country and world. To face such truth requires compassion. We also witness the tremendous goodness found within our diverse campus community, and we fully believe in our capacity to create and sustain our common good.

The challenges before us might seem impossible to overcome, and we are all far from perfect. Our response must meet the importance of this moment, to build communities where hate and intolerance are not just condemned and rejected, but eliminated. We are now called upon to embody our values and embrace each other. We must choose—through our words, thoughts and deeds—to emerge as a stronger and more just community.

We grieve for the families who have lost loved ones and for those who are suffering. It is simply not enough to try to imagine what others are going through. We must have the respect and resolve to do something about it. When we engage one another with kindness and compassion, we are working to ensure the dignity and worth of all.

While distanced around the world, we in the Orange Community can bind together and act together, for the sake of our world.

With hope,

Kent Syverud, Chancellor and President
Keith A. Alford, Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer
The Rev. Brian Konkol, Dean of Hendricks Chapel

To the Temple community: 

Recently, we have watched the horrific accounts of the deaths of George Floyd in Minnesota, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. Temple joins those who oppose racial oppression and are actively working toward racial equity. Our university was built on the idea that the world is filled with diamonds and these diamonds can be found anywhere and everywhere regardless of race, ethnicity or socio-economic background. As an educational institution, Temple promotes critical thinking and peaceful and purposeful activism. We join with leaders in the Philadelphia region in condemning violence that harms others and destroys property.

Last week, students, faculty and staff were invited to take part in programming and support services designed to help the Temple community process and constructively respond to this difficult season in our shared history. This programming will continue, led by Temple's Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership (IDEAL). We invite you to join with IDEAL for an "Envisioning Racial Justice" webinar to be held Tuesday, June 2. IDEAL regularly shares recommendations of books, articles and other valuable resources, like How To Be An Antiracist by Ibram X. Kendi. Not only is Dr. Kendi a National Book Award-winning and No. 1 New York Times Bestselling Author, he is a Temple Owl, having received his doctorate in African American Studies in 2010. Follow @templediversity for the most up-to-date recommendations and information about additional events.

If you believe you have been the victim of racial discrimination or harassment, please contact the university's EOC office, the focal point of Temple's institutionwide efforts for equal opportunity, equal access and affirmative action. Tuttleman Counseling Services and the Employee Assistance Program also remain available to support you as we face these challenges.

We have every confidence we will navigate this difficult time together.

Richard M. Englert
President

JoAnne A. Epps
Executive Vice President and Provost
Dear TSU Family, Tennessee State University shares the pain of those mourning the loss of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We also share that same anguish, sadness and outrage for the other black men and women across the country who are victims of police brutality because of the color of their skin. Our hearts ache for them and their loved ones, and also for the city that we call home. Nashville has had to endure the seemingly unimaginable this year. The decimation of deadly tornadoes; the physical, mental and economic impact of a pandemic; and now a peaceful rise against injustice that turned violent. While TSU does not condone the violence that erupted during the recent protests in Nashville and nationally, the university sternly and unequivocally opposes injustice and racism. Our institution has a rich history in the civil rights movement, as well as the modern-day movement. Many of our former students helped integrate Nashville's lunch counters, a historic moment in the city's history. Today, our students, from around the country and here in Nashville, are leaders in their communities fighting for change. We must seize this opportunity to continue the dialogue to demand fair and equitable treatment for all Americans, for all Nashvillians. Dear TSU Family, Tennessee State University shares the pain of those mourning the loss of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We also share that same anguish, sadness and outrage for the other black men and women across the country who are victims of police brutality because of the color of their skin. Our hearts ache for them and their loved ones, and also for the city that we call home. Nashville has had to endure the seemingly unimaginable this year. The decimation of deadly tornadoes; the physical, mental and economic impact of a pandemic; and now a peaceful rise against injustice that turned violent. While TSU does not condone the violence that erupted during the recent protests in Nashville and nationally, the university sternly and unequivocally opposes injustice and racism. Our institution has a rich history in the civil rights movement, as well as the modern-day movement. Many of our former students helped integrate Nashville's lunch counters, a historic moment in the city's history. Today, our students, from around the country and here in Nashville, are leaders in their communities fighting for change. We must seize this opportunity to continue the dialogue to demand fair and equitable treatment for all Americans, for all Nashvillians.
A Statement from President Oldham

Published Tuesday Jun 2, 2020
MEDIA RESOURCES
Our nation continues to be marred by injustice, racism, and violence. We observe recent events, that we have seen all too often, that threaten our ability to live with respect for each other.  The unwarranted death of George Floyd should never be forgotten.  I am saddened and struck with the overwhelming belief that we, as a nation, are better than this.

As a university community, we must take a stand and remain committed to our core values of inclusion, respect, kindness, and tolerance toward all.  Our students will be forever shaped by our words, actions, and response to the inexcusable treatment of people of color we have witnessed. 

At Tennessee Tech, we will be a safe place for African American students, faculty and staff. I ask you to hear their voices and pray that all of us will be granted an extra measure of God’s wisdom, grace, tolerance, and patience as we listen to each other and stand beside one another.

RETURN TO NEWS ROOM
The Texas A&M System condemns all racist behaviors, actions, and comments that tear at the moral fabric of our nation. The System is appalled at the deplorable and egregious acts of brutality by some police officers against African Americans. As the nation grieves, the A&M System is also experiencing sorrow and has devoted its platform to stand up against unjust racial disparities.

Based on diversity as a core value of our system, we denounce all forms of violence perpetrated against African Americans. The death of George Floyd, and many others, at the hand of police officers is a despicable and unacceptable outcome. Suffice it to say: IT MUST STOP. All forms of racism, from bias and micro-aggressions to racialized violence, create an undue weight on our faculty, staff, students of color, and administration. As such, there is a direct need to continue to educate and act on our values of inclusion and equity.

The Texas A&M System shall take all necessary steps to ensure that its employees and students are committed to the tenets of human respect and decency. To make a positive impact, we will make a unified commitment to translate our ideals into action for sustainable and proactive change. Equally as important, The Texas A&M System shall remain committed to providing an inclusive environment where all its members can thrive safely.

The A&M System believes all universities under the auspices of the Texas A&M Banner shall speak out against systemic and institutional racism at all levels. Likewise, we urgently call on all Texans and the nation to resist hateful and racist actions and refuse to drink from the bitter cup of divisiveness.

Dr. LaVelle Hendricks, Chair, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Angela Allen, West Texas A&M University
Dr. Carol Bunch Davis, Texas A&M University-Galveston
Larry Davis, Texas A&M University-Central Texas
Dr. Toney Favors, Texas A&M University-Texarkana
Dr. Manuel Flores, Texas A&M University-Kingsville
Elma De Luna-Gonzalez, Prairie View A&M University
Tim Gritten, Texas A&M University-San Antonio
Dr. Peter Haruna, Texas A&M International University
Dr. Lince Tiburcio, Tarleton University
Dr. Sherdeana Owens, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Dr. Christine Stanley, Texas A&M University
Dr. Julia Ballenger, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Joyce Miller, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Minita Ramirez, Texas A&M International University
Carl Greig, Texas A&M University-Texarkana
Dr. Corinne Valadez, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Dr. Jennifer Schroeder, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Brenda Moore, Texas A&M University-Commerce


Dear Texas Tech University family,
We have all been affected and saddened by the tragic and violent events in Minneapolis,
Minnesota. The events have brought to mind difficult and complex questions about racism
and justice. For some of our fellow students, faculty, and employees, what happened to
George Floyd feels like it could happen to them too.
That requires all of us to have an extra measure of compassion and understanding as we
move forward. Take time to listen to one another, to have the hard conversations and
uncomfortable exchanges. It is precisely those dialogues that strengthen the sense of
community that is an essential part of our university.
I want to reaffirm Texas Tech's unwavering commitment to a welcoming environment for all.
Many ethnicities are proudly represented on this campus, and our students are drawn from all
50 states and more than one hundred countries. That is a great strength, but it also means that
all of us—the administration, faculty, employees, and students alike—must treat every
person in this community with the respect and compassion they deserve. That is our bedrock
standard, and no matter our background, our bond as Red Raiders unifies us in a common
cause and in our responsibility to one another.
This past spring, the University held a series of dialogues about race relations on campus,
and that work has never felt more urgent. We intend to continue these efforts in the year
ahead and I also want to call attention to the many resources that are here for students,
faculty, staff, and administrators in the meantime. We have first-rate health and counseling
services to support you and additional educational resources and programs are provided
through the Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, and the Center for Campus Life. We
will work with colleagues across the Texas Tech University System, the Athletics
Department, the Texas Tech Police Department, as well as with our elected officials and
civic leaders here in Lubbock, to ensure your safety and well-being.
We are all Red Raiders, and we are all dedicated to a University that celebrates diversity and
draws strength from it. Following the closures of this spring, we aim to return to campus as
unified as ever. That's the Texas Tech way. And it reflects our most deeply held values of
respect, inclusion, compassion, and mutual concern.
We look forward to being able to resume our campus life, and I wish all of you the best in the
weeks and months to come.
Sincerely,
Lawrence Schovanec
President
Texas Tech University


TTIC's Mission Statement says: "TTIC is committed to the values of human freedom, dignity, prosperity, and diversity." President Turk confirmed in an internal mail to the TTIC community on Tuesday that the Institute is firmly committed to those values, and supports those demanding an end to intolerance, discrimination, marginalization, and bigotry. Racism and discrimination have devastating effects on society. Silence plays a key role in upholding and supporting narratives that contribute to systems of oppression and injustice.

The recent killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery, along with too many others, have caused profound new grief and adversely affect our lives and the lives of those we care about in significant ways. We must individually and collectively reflect on the lives lost unnecessarily, and the systemic problems and challenges we all face as a society. The unnecessary race-based killings and violence must end.
Community Message on Racial Injustice
Sunday, May, 31st, 2020 President's Desk Speeches and Messages

May 31, 2020

Dear members of the Tufts University community,

This spring has been a difficult one for our entire community, as all of our lives have taken turns that were inconceivable just months ago. But it is important to recognize that we have not all been challenged in the same ways. The coronavirus pandemic, with its disproportionate impact on the health and economic status of communities of color, has revealed, once again, the deep disparities that continue to exist in our nation. And the recent acts of violence against Black people demonstrate, once again, the racism and injustice that persist in our society.

I recognize that I have the privilege of being able to go for a jog or put on a mask without fearing that my skin color will make me a target. Not all members of our society—and our Tufts community—enjoy such privilege. To our Black students, faculty, staff and alumni, please know that I stand with you in demanding these injustices stop.

As a community, we want to come together, share our pain, and find a way to be a part of the solution. But we are currently separated around the world. I hope we can use our distance as a strength, rather than a barrier. Let’s work to improve the communities in which we find ourselves today and hope that by our actions, we can begin to knit this nation together.

I hope you will stay safe and support one another during these difficult times.

Best wishes,

Tony Monaco

A MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT LILY D. McNAIR "Dear Students, Alumni, Colleagues and Friends:


This past week, we have all experienced a range of emotions after viewing the horrific and senseless murder of George Floyd at the hands of law enforcement officials. As a mother, wife and president of Tuskegee University with more than 2,800 students – of which 35% are male – I am concerned about your safety and futures. While Black males have been the most obvious targets of police brutality and mistreatment, I am equally distressed about the fate of Black women who have increasingly suffered from similar miscarriages of justice.


I have a particularly heightened sense of concern for your safety and general well-being during these trying times. After watching the weekend protests occurring in major cities in the country, my heart sank again as I saw the video of two students from our sister institutions of Morehouse College and Spelman College who were forcibly removed from their vehicle and tasered by Atlanta police without obvious provocation. The death of George Floyd and these subsequent protests have exposed the troubling state of our country on many fronts – including racial disparities, social injustices, and economic inequalities that disproportionately affect the poor and people of color. Although many of you may choose to participate in these protests, I ask that you be mindful of the notable cause of peaceful protests. 


You are an important part of my family, so I ask that you stay safe. We will be working with student leaders and others over the coming days and weeks to engage in action-oriented solutions focused on anti-racism, peace, equality, and social justice reform. Join the Division of Student Affairs on Thursday, June 4, at 8:00 p.m. central time on Zoom for ""Know Peace, Know Justice: A Safety and Mental Health Discussion."" The Zoom link will be sent separately and posted on social media.


Stay safe. Stay focused. Know that we will get through this together.


Sincerely,
 
Lily D. McNair, Ph.D.
President"

Minneapolis, Louisville, Atlanta
Published May 30, 2020

Dear university community,

At the University at Buffalo, we believe that intolerance, hatred and institutional racism have no place in our community or our nation. That is precisely why our university—in principle and in practice—has deliberately cultivated a diverse, inclusive community grounded in respect for each other’s humanity.
 
As a university community, we are deeply saddened by the lives senselessly taken in Minneapolis, Atlanta and Louisville. As we watch neighborhoods and cities consumed by destruction and chaos, we mourn peacefully but not passively.
 
Instead, with unwavering compassion, let us lift our voices together and, as one, pledge that all people—regardless of race or gender—be afforded a life of liberty, equality, opportunity and dignity.

Sincerely,
 
Satish K. Tripathi
President


Important Message from UAB Leaders
by Tyler Greer
June 01, 2020 Print Email
UAB Community,

Integrity, respect, accountability, diversity and inclusiveness are shared values of our institution and are at the core of what it means to be a UAB Blazer. Everybody counts every day. The students, faculty and staff who comprise our richly diverse and inclusive campus — and take pride in living these values — are hurting, along with our community and country.

The senseless murder of George Floyd — fueled by racism and hate — is tragic, unacceptable and not isolated. The recent abhorrent killings of Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery show a disturbing pattern and are proof that an intentional focus on the values we espouse as members of the UAB community are needed now. These incidents have continued to surface as we navigate the COVID-19 pandemic, which has highlighted the systemic health disparities in African American and Latinx communities consistently addressed by leadership in our School of Medicine, as well as uneven enforcement of social distancing executive orders and anti-Asian bias. 

Nothing we can say can heal the deep pain and fear in our community. But we can recognize injustice and actively and purposefully live for integrity, respect, accountability, diversity and inclusiveness every day. Do not let your concern subside. Be a difference for positive change.

We are proud of and affirm our student government association's condemnation of these tragedies and its message encouraging fellow students to take actions beyond words with "donations, signing petitions, safely attending protests, and exercising your civic duties."

There are many opportunities to get involved. We encourage all of our students, faculty and staff to learn more about and seek the resources and programming offered by UAB's Student Multicultural and Diversity Programs and Office of Diversity Equity and Inclusion. 

Self-care is important in times like these. If you need them, utilize the free counseling services UAB offers through Student Counseling Servicesand the Employee Assistance Counseling Center.

Please take care of yourself and each other.

Sincerely,

Ray L. Watts, President

Pam Benoit, Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost

Allen Bolton, Senior Vice President for Finance and Administration

Selwyn Vickers, Senior Vice President for Medicine and Dean, School of Medicine

Jim Bakken, Interim Chief Communications Officer

Shannon Blanton, Dean, Honors College

Tom Brannan, Vice President for Advancement

Jennifer Breland, President, Staff Council

Chris Brown, Vice President for Research

Andrew Butler, Dean, School of Health Professions

Curt Carver, Vice President for Information Technology/Chief Information Officer

Autumn Cypres, Dean, School of Education

Paulette Dilworth, Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Paul Erwin, Dean, School of Public Health

Will Ferniany, CEO, UAB Health System

Kasia Gonnerman, Dean, Libraries

Doreen Harper, Dean, School of Nursing

Ria Hearld, Chair, Faculty Senate

Mark Ingram, Director of Athletics

Eric Jack, Dean, School of Business

Alesia Jones, Chief Human Resources Officer

John Jones, Vice President for Student Affairs 

Lori McMahon, Dean, Graduate School

Kelly Nichols, Dean, School of Optometry

Kathy Nugent, Executive Director, Harbert Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship

Rosie O'Beirne, Interim Associate Vice President for Digital Strategy and Marketing

Robert Palazzo, Dean, College of Arts and Sciences

Russell Taichman, Dean, School of Dentistry

Tim Wick, Interim Dean, School of Engineering 

UA Little Rock Stands with Students, Faculty, and Staff
JUNE 2, 2020

Trojan Family,

This is a difficult time for our country as we struggle with the harmful effects of racism. We grieve with the families of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and so many others. I want you to know that UA Little Rock stands against racism and hate and stands with those who support social justice and equality.

As an institution, we are not immune to issues of inequity and intolerance. Particularly with regard to issues of race and ethnicity, we have not done enough. While we still have much room for improvement, we are committed to doing the work that is required of us to ensure we provide members of our campus community with the space and support to operate authentically in their identity, free from harassment and disrespect.

I know there are members of our campus community, especially those who identify as African American, who are in great pain at this time as you struggle to process this latest tragedy, while navigating the enduring systems of discrimination that you face in your day-to-day life. We want you to know that you have a place at UA Little Rock, and it is important that we continue to work together to ensure the safety and well-being of every member of our campus community. We are here for you and we care for you. You matter.

I am committed to making sure that every member of our campus community is valued, respected, and celebrated–we are stronger together.

Christina S. Drale
Chancellor


Together against Racism and Injustice
June 1, 2020

Dear UBC community:

Recent anti-Black and anti-Asian violence in communities across North America has focused our attention on the deeply rooted racism in Canada and globally.  UBC itself is not immune to racism and injustice.

As a university, we need to make it crystal clear that racism and bias have no place in our community and that we have zero tolerance for it.

On behalf of the University, I condemn and denounce all incidents of anti-Black and anti-Asian racism and the continued racism and oppression that is directed at Indigenous communities. We must work together to dismantle the tools of oppression and white supremacy that remain prevalent and entrenched in our everyday systems.  It is my hope that at least here at UBC, we can work to model a different kind of community – one where we embrace difference and work to build each other up while enacting values of dignity, mutual respect, and justice.

Deeply connected to the wider region, and benefiting from the privilege of being on unceded land, UBC must be responsive to the needs of our wider community and committed to advancing the understanding of equity, diversity, and inclusion. As a public sector institution, we have an obligation and commitment towards the public good; and as a place of learning and engagement, we are uniquely positioned to generate and mobilize knowledge that can transform systems of oppression and support emerging leaders that can help shape not only our campus, but workplaces and communities beyond our campuses. As such we will be organizing a series of public engagements focused on anti-racism.

As the President of UBC, I reaffirm our institutional commitment to inclusion and call for the acceleration and intensification of efforts to build a more inclusive campus community.  Over the coming weeks, I will

Ensure adequate resources to implement the goals and actions of the Inclusion Action Plan.
Meet with the Black Caucus and the Asian Canadian Community Engagement Group.
Support the diversification of the professoriate through the allocation of President’s Excellence Chairs to Black and Indigenous faculty members.
Support identity-based spaces and organizations and ensure that they continue to receive the funding they need.
Fulfill commitments within the Inclusion Action Plan for the recruitment, retention and support of Black students, staff, and faculty.
Ensure that all our public safety officers and other authority figures are adequately trained to eliminate any unconscious or implicit bias.
Endeavour to diversify our community at every level through defined programs.
As recommended by the External review of the Equity & Inclusion Office, establish a dotted line reporting relationship to the Associate Vice President, Equity & Inclusion.
I will also be working closely with members of our administration, the Associate Vice President, Equity & Inclusion, and relevant committees and groups to assess and look at ways that we can enhance our efforts to build a more inclusive campus. We will host a  virtual town hall to elevate voices that are traditionally silenced in our institution and to monitor progress.

At UBC, diversity is our strength – inclusion of different perspectives and experiences is critical to the wellbeing of our community and the individual and collective pursuit of excellence. We can play a role against hatred, oppression, violence and injustice and find a way to support and elevate those who have been traditionally, systemically, and historically marginalized.

I encourage you to think about the role you can play in fighting racism and with that I urge you to read this post on solidarity and anti-racist action from our colleagues at the Equity & Inclusion Office.

If you are in need of support with respect to your wellbeing, please contact UBC Counselling Services or EFAP, explore some ways for self-care, and if you feel that you have faced discrimination while working or studying at UBC, please contact our human rights team. This post on sustainable self-care may also be useful.

On a personal note, I say to racialized students and colleagues at UBC: this is not the first time in history that you have experienced heightened stigmatization and racism. You are strong and resilient and will thrive in the face of this as you have done throughout history. Please don’t let racism cloud your spirit. Go and be the brilliant minds and compassionate hearts that you are, and continue to shine at UBC. You belong here.

If you think there is more UBC can do, I want to hear from you at presidents.office@ubc.ca.

Santa J. Ono
President and Vice-Chancellor

Letter to the UBC Community

A message from campus leaders: Standing together
MAY 29, 2020


EmailPrint
Chancellor Carol Christ and Oscar Dubón, Jr., vice chancellor for equity and inclusion, sent the following message to the campus community on Friday:

While we all profoundly feel the suffering and loss related to COVID-19—suffering and loss visited disproportionately on those who are Black, indigenous, people of color, and poor—we are appalled by the racist killings of recent weeks. We write to express our outrage; we stand in steadfast solidarity with our Black community; and we offer heartfelt condolences to the loved ones of the victims of the racially-motivated violence that is taking place in various communities across America. Unchecked violence at the hands of police and civilians requires our – and all of society's – urgent attention.

As a campus community, we stand with the family of Ahmaud Arbery, who was murdered while jogging in Georgia by two white men. We stand with Christian Cooper, who was the victim of a woman's attempt to use the police as a weapon against him while he pursued his passion for birdwatching in New York's Central Park. We stand with the loved ones of Breonna Taylor, an essential worker during this pandemic who was killed in her home by police. We stand against the senseless killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis by a police officer who knelt on his neck, while three others watched and assisted, as Mr. Floyd choked out the same final words of another slain Black man, Eric Garner: "I can't breathe."

Let us say their names, acknowledge their humanity, and commit to doing what we can to build a more just society.

Let us also acknowledge that while these names and incidents made their way into the national news and discourse, they are not by any means isolated, nor is the racism that underlies them.

According to Rutgers University Sociologist Frank Edwards, one out of every 1,000 Black men in America will be killed by a police officer. This makes them two and half times more likely than white men to die during encounters with officers.

Less noticed by the mainstream media but equally important to elevate are Black women, gender non-conforming and trans people who have been murdered in recent weeks and months.

We must call out and hold accountable our broken structures, build bridges that will lead to mutual understanding and respect across differences, and work to create a future in which we can all thrive, especially in these most challenging times. This work must happen across the nation – and it must happen on a local level as well.

We acknowledge the grief, anger, sadness, helplessness, and outrage that these killings create in our community. Let us channel those feelings toward a commitment to each others' wellness. If you would like support, please contact UC Berkeley Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). Counselors are available for phone and video counseling appointments. There are also new online self-help tools. Visit the CAPS website, call Counseling and Psychological Services at (510) 642-9494, or, when the Tang Center is closed, call the after-hours counseling line (855) 817-5667. CAPS employs mental health professionals trained to provide support to individuals from a wide array of identities, including traditionally marginalized or disenfranchised groups.

In addition, Be Well at Work – Employee Assistance provides free confidential counseling and referrals for our faculty, staff, visiting scholars, and postdocs. To schedule an appointment with an Employee Assistance counselor, please contact (510) 643-7754 or email employeeassistance@berkeley.edu.

Finally, please be aware of the following resources:

Student Organizations: Our campus has numerous and diverse student organizations that students may wish to get involved in. You can explore at callink.berkeley.edu.
Centers for Educational Justice & Community Engagement: These centers provide space, programs, and services for Berkeley's diverse student communities. Learn more at ejce.berkeley.edu/mcc or (510) 642-6528.
Reporting: For information and support on reporting hate crimes or hate-motivated acts, visit stophate.berkeley.edu.
As a campus community, we must uphold a standard of care and respect in both words and actions that lives up to our values and principles of community. This is a time for greater self-examination of society's institutions and structures—including our university—and a bold commitment to healthier national and campus cultures. In this way, we honor lives lost or forever changed through acts of hate and violence by bringing about change for justice and belonging.
To the UC Davis Community:

"I can't breathe." These were the last words uttered by Eric Garner as he was being murdered on Staten Island in 2014.

"I can't breathe."These were among the last words spoken by George Floyd as he suffered the same fate under hauntingly similar circumstances in Minneapolis on Monday evening.

In 2014, I tried to explain the Garner incident to my daughters. Yesterday, I tried to explain the Floyd incident to myself. In both cases, I fell short. Murder captured on video defies explanation.

Needless to say, these tragedies hit my family and me hard. I know it's touched a deep nerve with many of you as well. You have reached out to express your support, concern, sadness and anger, and I appreciate it. To be honest, it's been difficult for me to know how to address this because it is so personal.

I lived in Georgia for nearly 30 years, where Ahmaud Arbery was hunted and killed. George Floyd could have been any African American man, including me. Beyond the constant barrage of fear of the negative consequences of birding while black, shopping while black, cooking out while black, exercising while black — it is just exhausting. And I'm tired.

I can't claim to speak for all African Americans or all people of color. And to ask me or others like me to do so is a burden others don't have to carry. So I have thought a lot about how America got here, so long ago, and why we haven't made as much progress as we often claim.

The events of this week also cause me to believe even more strongly, if that's possible, in building an inclusive environment that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. I remain committed to that and hope you will do what you can to eliminate racism, sexism, and other negative influences on our progression as a nation.

Perhaps higher education can be that positive influence on lives beyond an education. Perhaps here we can create a way forward. Perhaps here we can breathe.

Sincerely,

Gary S. May
Chancellor

Category
Messages and Announcements
Tags
Chancellor's Messages
Offices of the Chancellor and Provost
Fifth Floor, Mrak Hall
University of California, Davis
One Shields Avenue
Davis, CA 95616

(530) 752-2065

Categories
Messages and Announcements
Speeches
Related Articles
Kayton Carter, Renetta Garrison Tull and Chancellor May stand together in a moment of silence. 
Checking In With Chancellor May: Beyond the Moment
June 05, 2020
Provost Hexter standing outside looking at camera
A Message to Our Students as We Near the Close of Spring 2020
June 04, 2020
Chancellor May sitting at desk writing a letter
Checking In With Chancellor May: A Way Forward
May 29, 2020
Chancellor Gary May seriously and thoughtfully looking to the side
Checking In With Chancellor May: Reflection
May 22, 2020
Chancellor May sitting at desk writing a letter
Coronavirus Update for Incoming Fall 2020 Students
May 21, 2020

In Support of the African American Community
May 31, 2020
Dear UCI Community:

We watched with shock and horror the video of a white policeman callously, even casually, kneeling on the neck of an unarmed and unresisting black man until that man was dead, while other policemen stood by and watched.  This brutal and racist act was like something out of Mississippi during Jim Crow, out of the past we don't acknowledge enough, but it wasn't.  It is our reality, in the here and now, a reality that reflects the harsh, brutal, terrible, ongoing legacy of America's original sin.

We empathize with the pain, sadness, and anger that many Black students, employees, and alumni understandably are feeling.  Please reach out to any of us if we can help you during this extraordinary time.

The unrest that is roiling our country, from coast to coast, is a profoundly distressing statement of the crisis of our society.  At the core of this crisis is the reality of anti-Black racism in the United States.  The death of George Floyd was not isolated.  Breonna Taylor, a first responder, died in a hail of gunfire in her Louisville home in March.  Tony McDade, a Black trans-masculine person, was shot and killed by Tallahassee police.  Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia was hunted down and murdered by vigilantes.  His story is all too familiar.  Unarmed, Trayvon Martin was killed by George Zimmerman in 2012.  Their crime: jogging and walking while Black.  This sickening and outrageous roll call goes on and on.

The response to these and other unjustified deaths reflects a profound and justified sense of grievance and frustration with policing and our justice system.  The unrest that we are witnessing is no less about the persistence of systematic oppression and exclusion in educational opportunity, participation in the economy, access to health care, and all areas of social life essential to social justice and human well being.   

As Vice Chancellor Haynes noted in his message last Thursday, the experience of anti-Blackness belies the notion that "We are all in this together." 

But if we are to survive, as a nation, as a society, we must be in this together.  

Here at UCI, an institution devoted to the betterment of the world, our Inclusive Excellence Action Plan focuses on promoting a campus culture defined by community, thriving, and wellness.  That is not enough.  We can and must do more. All of us, collectively, must confront the distinctive, fundamental reality of anti-Blackness. We must also look forward and explore what we can do—in our practices, our teaching, our research, our community engagement, our interpersonal interactions—to mitigate the pervasive and systemic injustices and brutalities of anti-Blackness.

To this end, Vice Chancellor Haynes will develop and launch by fall 2020 a wide-ranging initiative.  With input from campus stakeholders and community, this initiative will ensure that our campus community is educated about anti-Blackness, takes steps to dismantle anti-Black sentiment, enhances scholarly expertise and research, promotes the intellectual and cultural capital of Black communities, transforms the professoriate and knowledge workforce of the future, and identifies other ways we can rise to the serious challenges confronting all of us.   

We stand in unity with the African-American community to deepen everyone's understanding so that we make this world a better place, for today and for future generations.  To do this work we must be in this together.

Let there be light for us all,

Chancellor Howard Gillman
Interim Provost Hal Stern
Vice Chancellor, Student Affairs Willie Banks
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Douglas Haynes
UCI Chief of Police Liz Griffin
The Pain Behind the Protests
Campus Update
To the Campus Community:

Across the country, people are horrified by the recent killings of three African Americans: Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd. We share that outrage. And these are only a few of the most recent deaths to cause particular anguish amongst those who for too long have endured cruelty after cruelty, indignity after indignity.

What stood out about the killing of George Floyd — more than its senselessness, more than its brutality – was its casualness. What was so chilling was the relaxed demeanor of a police officer — sworn to protect and to serve — his hands calmly in his pockets, kneeling on the neck of a fellow human being, indifferent to his cries of pain and the fear for his life. Equally harrowing was his three fellow officers who stood there and did not recognize the need to intervene in a life or death situation. All these behaviors reflected the utter dehumanization of Black life.

We must never let that indifference to human suffering become our own. We must never deaden our hearts to the pain of others. Our fundamental values demand that we care.

At UCLA, we believe deeply that equity, respect and justice are central to the character of our institution, to the health of our democracy and to the well-being of our world. Still, we recognize that UCLA also can and must do better. As campus leaders, we recommit ourselves to ensuring that our policies and actions value the lives, safety and dignity of every Bruin.

We have begun the process of coordinating virtual reflection spaces for departments and units, where we can come together to try and process what has happened. With assistance from the Office for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion and the university’s Equity Advisors, we are also trying to share ways we can honestly and humbly acknowledge the pain and search for solutions. This includes working with student government leaders to understand and address the needs of our students. Our efforts will be updated on the Resources for Racial Trauma web page as we push forward to deeper understanding and genuine change.

We conclude by stating unequivocally that Black lives DO matter. They matter at UCLA. They matter in Minnesota. They matter everywhere.

In solidarity,
Gene D. Block
Chancellor
Emily A. Carter
Executive Vice Chancellor and
Provost
Michael Meranze
Chair, Academic Senate
Michael J. Beck
Administrative Vice Chancellor
Gregg Goldman
Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer
Monroe Gorden, Jr.
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Jerry Kang
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity
and Inclusion
Michael S. Levine
Vice Chancellor for Academic Personnel
John Mazziotta
Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences
CEO, UCLA Health

Louise C. Nelson
Vice Chancellor for Legal Affairs
Mary Osako
Vice Chancellor for Strategic Communications

Rhea Turteltaub
Vice Chancellor for External Affairs
Roger Wakimoto
Vice Chancellor for Research
Yolanda J. Gorman
Senior Advisor to the Chancellor and Chief of Staff

Dan Guerrero
The Alice and Nahum Lainer Family Director of Athletics
Antonio E. Bernardo
Dean, Anderson School of
Management
Ronald S. Brookmeyer
Dean, Fielding School of Public Health
Eric Bullard
Dean, Continuing Education and UCLA Extension

Miguel A. García-Garibay
Dean, Division of Physical Sciences
Robin L. Garrell
Vice Provost, Graduate Education
Dean, Graduate Division

Darnell M. Hunt
Dean, Division of Social Sciences
Brian Kite
Interim Dean, School of Theater, Film and Television

Paul H. Krebsbach
Dean, School of Dentistry
Kelsey Martin
Dean, David Geffen School of Medicine
Jennifer L. Mnookin
Dean, School of Law
Jayathi Y. Murthy
Dean, Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science

Linda Sarna
Dean, School of Nursing
Gary M. Segura
Dean, Luskin School of Public Affairs
David Schaberg
Dean, Division of Humanities
Victoria Sork
Dean, Division of Life Sciences

Brett Steele
Dean, School of the Arts and Architecture
Eileen Strempel
Dean, The Herb Alpert School of
Music
Marcelo Suárez-Orozco
Dean, Graduate School of Education & Information Studies

Pat Turner
Senior Dean, College
Dean and Vice Provost, Undergraduate Education

Tony Lee
Chief of UCLA Police Department
Naomi Riley
President, Undergraduate Students Association
Jean Paul Santos
President, Graduate Students Association
 
UC Riverside Mourns the Death of George Floyd
KIM A. WILCOX
Chancellor
May 29, 2020
Dear Campus Community,

In March and early April, elected leaders held daily press conferences in which they reported the number of ventilators they had secured. In hospitals and labs, physicians, scientists, and device manufacturers looked for new ways to help patients suffering from COVID-19 breathe. Both federal and state entities went to great expense to ensure that those who needed it had air.

Then, this week, videos showed a police officer with his knee pushing into the neck of an African American man named George Floyd, while two others held his legs as he took his last breath. Before he died, Floyd pleaded, "I can't breathe," to the men who took his life. 

There is no denying that air is sought for some and stolen from others. 

The death of George Floyd follows the death of Ahmaud Arbery, an unarmed African American man chased down and shot by white men while jogging near his home in Georgia. 

We represent an institution committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion. To those of you who too well understand the fear of being arrested, assaulted or killed because of the color of your skin – from ongoing Anti-Black racism to COVID-19 Anti-Asian upsurges, we want you to know we are with you and grateful that you are a part of our community. We will continue to foster an environment that not only values equality but fights inequity where we see it.

Our country has buried too many in recent months. We mourn all of these lost lives but today grieve most deeply a loss that didn't have to be and reaffirm our commitment to work toward a better tomorrow. 
Statement on George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery
Today our hearts are burdened, our minds are searching, and our spirits are processing a mix of disbelief, anger and sadness. The news of George Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on Monday night and the disturbing video of his final moments has shocked the world. Taken in context with the recent killings of Breonna Taylor (by police in her own home) and Ahmaud Arbery (by neighbors while jogging), our black community members, in particular, are outraged, traumatized, fearful and in profound pain.

Grief and concern in their purest forms have been made even more poignant during this time of great uncertainty due to the global public health crisis. The coronavirus pandemic has magnified the long history of racism in our country, ongoing inequity, and the status quo of the dehumanization of our fellow Black Americans.

How do we react? What do we do? Where do we start?
We begin by extending our sincere, heartfelt sympathies to the loved ones of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We join in mourning their unspeakably tragic and untimely deaths. We stand in solidarity with our black family, friends and neighbors in their time of need and help them shoulder their everyday lives so that they have the necessary time to mourn and process the deeper meanings of these losses. And most importantly, no matter how painful, difficult or uncomfortable, we must review these events with full transparency and recognize there are systemic problems in our society that desperately need our attention, time and energy to remedy.

We must recognize the violation of human rights and the devastating effects that systemic racism, oppression and violence have on the safety, security and health of communities of color. We cannot let these acts be normalized or allow ourselves to become numb to them. The University of California San Diego unequivocally condemns the disproportionate use of excessive force by some police in communities of color.

We also denounce vigilante acts that terrorize members of the community based upon race, ethnicity, country of origin, religion, disability, gender, gender identity, or sexual orientation. We as a community must not and will not tolerate acts of hate, bias or violence. We are committed to doing what can be done within our institution to make sure everyone feels that they belong and that they matter. This should be our commitment to ourselves and to each other.

Where do we go from here?
In the coming weeks, our Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion has planned community conversations to provide spaces for healing and identifying ways to be agents of change in this moment. Details are forthcoming and will be communicated via campus notice.

We know that statements such as these do not resolve the intractable issues we face as a country. We know it does not even begin to heal the hurt and trauma caused by structural and systemic racism and discrimination. Collectively, let us continue to work together for a more just, equitable and humane society in our service, activism, pedagogy, and community and collaborative efforts.

Pradeep K. Khosla
Chancellor

Elizabeth H. Simmons
Executive Vice Chancellor

Maripat Corr
Chair, San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

Steven Constable
Vice Chair, San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

David A. Brenner
Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences

Margaret S. Leinen
Vice Chancellor for Marine Sciences

Sandra A. Brown
Vice Chancellor for Research

Gary C. Matthews
Vice Chancellor for Resource Management and Planning

Pierre Ouillet
Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer

Becky R. Petitt
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion

Alysson Satterlund
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Judy Bruner
Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer

Anne L. Buckley
Chief Communications and Marketing Officer

Vince Kellen
Chief Information Officer

Patty Maysent
Chief Executive Officer for UC San Diego Health

Daniel W. Park
Chief Campus Counsel

Nancy Resnick
Chief Human Resource Officer

David S. Rose
Chief of Police

Michael Trigilio
Chair of the Committee on Diversity and Equity
San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

SHARE
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Email
Print


Statement on George Floyd
To: UC Santa Cruz Community

From: Chancellor Cynthia Larive

May 29, 2020

SHARE THIS STORY:TwitterFacebookLinkedInReddit
Dear Campus Community,

I write today to share our pain, sadness, and anger for the murder of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota. In the midst of this unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic, the all too common violence and threat of violence perpetrated against Black people and other communities of color in our country escalates. George Floyd’s death is part of an appalling history of racist harassment, assault, and murder that stretches back far too long in the life of our nation. There are too many victims whose experiences never made headlines and whose names will never become public. I know that grief weighs heavily on many members of our community. I struggle with my own sense of heartbreak.

Our university struggles with and works within the same context of white supremacist systems, structures, and conditions that make life more dangerous and precarious for people of color. Universities, like our country, have taken too long to translate our ideals into action or sustainable change. Transforming the university takes work, and we are still engaged in that work. The pace of change is frustratingly slow and the instruments of change are imperfect. The difficulties of this past year for our community highlight how far we have to go. 

I encourage you to reach out to campus services for support. In addition to support services offered by staff in our colleges and resource centers, Counseling and Psychological Services provides assistance for students. For employees, the Employee Assistance Program can provide counseling and support.

Sincerely,

Cindy

Our community and events in Minneapolis and Chicago
 
To: Members of the University Community
From: Ka Yee C. Lee, Provost
Subject: Our community and events in Minneapolis and Chicago
Date: May 30, 2020
 
Our nation is confronting painful issues in the wake of the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis and a number of other racially motivated incidents. These recent examples represent a small fraction of the bias and violence that occurs across the U.S. and around the world each day. The deep alarm expressed by people throughout the country, including in our home of Chicago, reflects many decades of grief and anguish over the intractable scourge of racism against minority communities, particularly African Americans.
 
I know that many of you are feeling sadness, pain, and anger over these recent events. In these already difficult times, this is an occasion for solidarity and for a strengthened commitment to care for each other and work to improve our community, our city and, our nation. Even though most of us are separated by distance as this quarter comes to a close, our shared values bind us together to seek truth, value diversity, and strive for justice.
 
Diversity and inclusion are core values of our institution. We value every member of our campus community, and each of us should show respect for one another. The vitality of the South Side is fundamentally linked with that of the University, and we esteem the deep relationships and partnerships that the residents of the South Side and members of the University community have built together. Fostering a sense of trust, inclusion, belonging and safety for our faculty, other academic appointees, staff, and students is always a priority, and especially so during this time. In the coming days, there will be more information about opportunities for our community to come together in dialogue about these issues.
 
We also encourage you to access the many valuable University resources that may be helpful to you right now:
 
The Center for Identity + Inclusion engages students and members of our University community from all backgrounds to ensure personal, academic, and professional growth, and success.
The Center for the Study of Race, Politics, and Culture offers a wide array of programming, including a Zoom series focused on the racial disparities of COVID-19.
The Pozen Center for Human Rights offers regular programming about global human rights.
Spiritual Life serves as a destination for religious and spiritual needs.
UChicago Student Wellness offers counseling services and other support for students impacted by these and other events.
The Urban Health Initiative runs inclusive community grants and organizes a variety of community programs and services.
The Diversity & Inclusion website features a listing of related events happening across campus.
 
Thank you for the continuing work of people across our University to build a strong, supportive, and inclusive community.
 
 
Keywords: 
Announcements
Diversity and Inclusion
It is hard not to be haunted by the brutal reality that Dr. King’s words are needed as much in 2020 as they were in 1967. America has failed to hear the profound ways we are, repeatedly, failing each other. And not only in small, I-will-do-better-next-time ways. But in the biggest way imaginable—by failing to fight for the basic humanity of our neighbor. Our hearts ache for the family and friends of George Floyd, as they continue to do so for the loved ones of Samuel DuBose. We must agree destruction of our neighborhoods is not the answer. Let us instead heed the clarion call from President Obama to "work together to create a ‘new normal’ in which the legacy of bigotry and unequal treatment no longer infects our institutions or our hearts."
From the Chancellor - Standing against hate and violence
May 29, 2020

As I see national news stories about the death of George Floyd and other recent acts of racism, I reflect on the conversations I had earlier this year with our students about these very issues. 

Even though a global pandemic is keeping us apart from each other, I share in your pain, anger and sadness. When we see acts of racism, it affects us deeply and takes a physical, mental and emotional toll. We must reach out and support each other as we process what has happened. For me, I will not lose hope. I take heart in how our students have engaged with us over the last academic year. We had honest conversations in a genuine effort to enhance campus climate together and build a more welcoming, safe and inclusive community for all.

These intolerable injustices, whether they happen in Minnesota, New York or here in Colorado, strike at the core of everything we believe. Let me be clear: I am committed to diversity and inclusion of everyone on our campus. 

We stand in solidarity with all members of our campus community, including our police department and the city of Boulder in encouraging and supporting peaceful demonstrations.

As a campus community, it is incumbent on us to encourage civil discourse that lifts us all from this darkness. Universities can be, and must be, at the heart of social change. As a campus, we continuously work to cultivate a diverse, inclusive and welcoming community. We best illustrate this through our moral actions when we see injustice, close to home or far away.

Please take care of yourselves, each other and use our campus support resources, which continue to be available during these difficult times. 
 

Phil DiStefano,
CU Boulder Chancellor
Dear UConn Community,

Recent events have called national attention yet again to the destructive power of prejudice and racism. The death of George Floyd in police custody in Minneapolis serves as our most recent example. We are disgusted by the images we have seen capturing the unconscionable acts that caused his death. Demonstrations across the country make clear that communities are hurting and frustrated by repeated acts of violence against their neighbors, friends, and families. These events have saddened and angered so many on a deeply personal level, with the burden of fear for one's own and their family's safety placed squarely upon African-Americans.

Unfortunately, this is just one of many examples of the pain caused by systemic injustices that are present every day. Take, for example, the disproportionate rates of death by COVID-19 among African-American, Latinx, and Indigenous peoples, or the discriminatory acts targeting individuals of Asian descent and foreign nationals from many countries in this pandemic. This adds to the already vulnerable experience of so many in our community, including but not limited to DACA students who are unsure about their future; individuals with disabilities who can feel invisible; LGBTQ+ individuals experiencing verbal and physical acts of violence; individuals subjected to intolerance based on their religious identity and beliefs; and people of color who are forced to constantly question if they can engage safely in routine activities like jogging or bird watching.

These events underscore the critical importance of our infusing diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in everything we do every single day. Not with mantra and platitudes, but with clearly articulated and tangible action that is supported by the University with budget and action. As scholars, educators, and colleagues, we are uniquely positioned to reflect, learn, and act.

We are committed to this work as UConn moves forward from some of its own recent struggles. We have a crucial new partner in these efforts with the recent hire of Dr. Frank Tuitt as our new Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer. We are all eager to work with him to sustain a culture that understands, respects, and appreciates differences, but also one that readily acknowledges our shortcomings and holds ourselves accountable for measurable progress at all times.

As he looks ahead to this new role, Frank shared the following: "I strongly believe that institutions like UConn should be at the center of creating spaces for students, faculty, and staff to imagine and invent ways to build more inclusive, affirming, and equitable institutions, organizations, and communities, and I look forward to doing my part to contribute to that collective effort."

We have communicated closely with him over the past several days, and we all will benefit from his leadership and expertise.

We have the opportunity to engage our entire community in the work that is needed, building upon continued advocacy and efforts of concerned faculty, staff, and administrators at UConn in collaboration with our cultural centers and our amazing undergraduate and graduate students who are willing to speak clearly and directly about their experiences. Change cannot be carried out by one person or one office alone. Too often the labor of this work is disproportionately undertaken by our most vulnerable, impacting their career progression, as well as their mental health and overall satisfaction with their work experience. This is a time when we can build momentum to share the responsibility across our entire community at our Storrs, UConn Health, Avery Point, Hartford, Stamford, Waterbury, and law school campuses.

We also have been extremely fortunate to benefit from the stewardship of Interim Chief Diversity Officer Dana Wilder. Building on strengths of the Office for Diversity and Inclusion, we are positioned as a national leader and a place where people of all identities feel they have a genuine opportunity for success and belonging. We encourage each of you to explore their website, which includes multiple resources including trainings and guides as well as information on events and cultural centers sponsored by their office.

There are no simple solutions or easy answers to solve the issues of injustice and prejudice in society and at our University. Of all of the various parts of our experience as administrators, this is the one area where we both feel like we have not done enough or met our own expectations. We do not experience that feeling as despair, but instead as a motivator to understand and accept our own privilege and the responsibilities that it brings to do more. We encourage our community to hold our entire leadership team accountable as we carry out that vital work together.

The challenge now is to remember this moment even if it fades from the headlines and to continue to strive for a society and a UConn that allows all to live safely and welcomed.

Sincerely,
Tom and Carl

Tom Katsouleas
President

Carl Lejuez
Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs
WE CAN DO BETTER AS A UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY
Photo by Kathy F. Atkinson June 04, 2020

A message from UD President Dennis Assanis
Editor's note: President Dennis Assanis shared this message with the University community on June 4.

Dear UD Community,

Our society is calling for equity and social justice. I hear you, and I am part of that call. We can do better as a University community. And we will do it together.

Over the past several days, many of you have written to me or posted your thoughts on social media to express your anger and frustration about the racial injustices that have been laid bare by the social unrest taking place in our nation. What’s more, I have been truly heartbroken to hear the stories of discrimination and prejudice that many of you have experienced, whether in our broader society or, unfortunately, here within our own community. It is so disturbing to see that some individuals do not grasp the insidious nature of racism and the very real pain caused by offensive and exclusionary language.

Every member of our community — students, faculty, and staff — is welcomed and valued at the University of Delaware. We must ensure that everyone is treated with respect and a sense of belonging. We should seek to find commonality, humanity, and civility to bridge our differences. We condemn the discriminatory and inflammatory words used by some members of our community. They do not reflect the University’s values. We are addressing each of these situations in accordance with the University’s conduct and non-discrimination policies.

Last week, the nationwide protests began as a response to the senseless deaths of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky — as well as the long list of other victims of discrimination and violence in American history. The global consciousness that has been reawakened by these tragedies must continue to advance our progress toward a society that is anti-racist and anti-hate. Education lies at the heart of this effort and is the key to real and lasting change.

Without a doubt, the University of Delaware can and must do more to expand diversity and promote inclusion and equity in our community. Since coming to UD, I have tried to face the challenges of history and culture that I see. Indeed, building inclusive excellence has always been personally important to me. While we have made strides in diversifying our faculty ranks and our student enrollment, there is clearly additional work to be done. I am committed — as is my administration — to redoubling our efforts to increase minority representation among our students, faculty and staff. But we know that the numbers are just one component of the equation. We must work ever harder to promote a more inclusive culture throughout UD where everyone is valued and all can expand their potential and believe in a better future.

To this end, I will be working closely with campus leaders to ensure progress and action around key needs of the University. Recognizing that these are both priorities and opportunities to take UD forward, we all need to take the following steps:

We need to build a more inclusive culture — Through education for all members of our community, we can cultivate a greater appreciation of the value of diverse peoples, cultures and perspectives. This is absolutely essential in modern society and directly supports our institutional mission to prepare our citizens to succeed. This semester we piloted an online diversity, equity, and inclusion education module. We will plan to require this training of all undergraduate and graduate students beginning in this upcoming academic year.
We need to listen and learn — We are planning a series of forums that will span the entire next academic year where all members of our community will have their voices heard and acknowledged. The input gathered at these forums will help inform our next steps as we continue to improve our campus climate with actionable initiatives. We are also mindful of those who have been silent, and we encourage them to come forward and share their stories, perspectives and ideas.
We need to act now — We will strengthen our collective awareness of and response to prejudice, diligently recruit underrepresented faculty and students, and raise funds for social justice initiatives on campus. We will also connect our campus-wide efforts and networks into a more robust agenda for larger impact.
We need to ensure accountability and operate effectively together as a united community — Everyone is responsible, and this needs to be enforced through renewed policies and practices using a framework where differences are respected and celebrated. We must also ensure that our campus climate and culture assessments are frequent and thorough, and that they reaffirm our commitment to improve the diversity and inclusion landscape at UD.
We have more to do — This list is not exhaustive, nor will it ever end. Our work to build a more equitable and inclusive society must be ongoing. We will remain committed to being open, to listening and to working together to make progress possible at UD. We not only welcome your active engagement; we need it. This is a call to action for everyone here now and with ties to UD.
There will be additional steps in the coming weeks and months. I welcome your input as we move forward. Please always feel free to reach out to Michael Vaughan, interim vice provost for diversity and inclusion, at vpd@udel.edu, or José-Luis Riera, vice president for student life, at studentdiversity@udel.edu.

This is an extraordinarily challenging time for all of us. I am inspired by the strength, the caring and the unshakable resolve of the University of Delaware community, and I ask you to join me in recommitting ourselves to ensuring that our institution continues to be a source of pride for all students, all faculty, all staff, all alumni … all people.

Sincerely,

Dennis Assanis, President


George Floyd was a member of our Third Ward community and we share in the tremendous pain our community is experiencing. Our thoughts are with his friends and family, Houston and the nation at large. We mourn with you.
June 4, 2020 | Let Us Reflect on this Day of Mourning
Dear University of Idaho Faculty, Staff and Students,

Today is a National Day of Mourning to respectfully recognize the death of George Floyd and the loss to his family as well as other lives lost. Words and actions matter, especially in times of national unrest and fearfulness, and especially from institutional leaders. They can calm or provoke, heal or hurt, and at their best, motivate meaningful change for good. The memo we sent out earlier this week regarding diversity and safety missed that last mark.

Asking that we treat each other with kindness and compassion was perceived by some as a request not to engage when we witness racism or injustice. That could not be further from what was intended. We must act against racism and injustice by addressing the change that needs to occur to create social equity.

So, today, in this moment of mourning, let me be more direct:

Black lives matter, and what happened to George Floyd and so, so many other African American and black citizens is abhorrent. No human being should ever have to fear for their life based solely on the color of their skin. The tragic fact is this is not a new phenomenon, but rather an all too frequent part of our national history.
There is no room for disagreement when it comes to basic human civil rights and crimes against humanity. We have a responsibility to engage and act when we see injustice. Truly, our future as a society depends on it.
We should be able to have a difficult conversation about race and equity issues and treat each other with civility and compassion … including on social media. This does not mean we tolerate or condone racism or hate crimes; it means that we are a place where people from all backgrounds should feel safe.
Listening — and truly hearing — the concerns of African American and black students, faculty, staff, and alumni, as well as other underrepresented communities, is critical to moving forward. Action toward lasting change matters as well. After campuswide discussions, we have adopted a diversity plan that we believe will help take action and address issues of social inequity. As Vandals, let’s work together and tackle these issues. It is the only way to realize the very best future for the community. Let’s take this National Day of Mourning to pay our respects to a life unjustly taken and work on our own reflection and racial reconciliation.

Scott Green
President

president@uidaho.edu
uidaho.edu/president
The anger, sadness, and fear felt by our community, and specifically Black communities across our nation, over the killing of George Floyd are justified. This is not a new phenomenon and the Black community is, we are sure, exhausted from the constant trauma and pain of being the recipients of mistreatment by those who are tasked with serving and protecting communities—the police.

There is also disappointment, frustration, and pain due to the continued disproportionate police brutality against people of color, specifically the Black community. These inequalities manifest themselves economically and socially. No one should feel their race or any aspect of their identity makes them a target for violence. Addressing inequality requires changing hearts, minds, and systems, and the University of Iowa will continue to work toward that goal through actions. To that end, we will release an update to our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Action Plan, which our community has developed, this coming week.

Over the past several days, the images from across our nation are difficult to comprehend and elicit a range of feelings. While we will engage with these emotions individually, and on our own timeline, one thing is clear—together we must act. Each of us must lead change within our individual communities to actively disrupt racism (interpersonal, systemic, and societal).

As you know, on our campus and within our community:

    We will not tolerate anything but a safe and inclusive campus for people of all backgrounds regardless of race, creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, religion, ancestry, or disability.
    We value the First Amendment and freedom of expression and believe civil discourse and the respectful exchange of ideas are the cornerstones of higher education and this great institution.

We are here to help. Many resources are available and we encourage you to reach out and ask for help.
We, the Chancellor and Provost of the University of Kansas, are emerging, as many of you are, from a week of heart wrenching conversations about the toxic impact that racism has on all of our communities. The deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and David McAtee, and the exchange between Amy Cooper and Christian Cooper in Central Park, are just recent and high-profile additions to innumerable immoral acts of racism to Black members of our communities.

The protests across the country, in the region, and in our cities over the past week and in Lawrence Sunday night are powerful statements of the depth of pain and anger that so many of our students, colleagues and friends are feeling. We have done a lot of listening over the past several days, and we recognize the disappointment that our earlier messages created. We hear our community members when you tell us you are broken-hearted and exhausted, and that it’s too much to bear.

We know that acts of racism and discrimination, in their many forms, happen in Lawrence and at KU, and on a regular basis. We are not free of the causes of this period of protest and unrest.

The egregious acts of racism and discrimination that have been targeted toward our Black community members do not stand in isolation. Members of Asian, LatinX, Muslim, immigrant and LGBTQIA communities are also targets of hate speech, discrimination, and racialized violence. Our community members who have disabilities and those who experience challenges with mental health are often stigmatized, abandoned, and suffer in silence. Members of our Black and Native communities have been disproportionately devastated by COVID-19, which is another fatal reminder of the systemic disparities in health outcomes, availability of financial support, and educational resources for so many of our most vulnerable community members.

Our hearts break with yours. We stand with you and for you.

It’s long past time for racism and discrimination to end. If we are to be on the side of social justice, we — meaning, we as leaders, KU as an institution, and each of us as community members — simply must do the work.

We all need KU to be a place that doesn’t replicate, tolerate or perpetuate racism, systematically, systemically, or individually. We know you are anxiously waiting and hoping that we can get past talking and hollow promises, and do something together in a different way that begins to make things better. You want us to hold ourselves to a higher standard, and we are ready to step up, to take responsibility, and to place KU at the forefront of social change.

In consultation and collaboration with leaders of our communities of color and marginalized groups, we begin today to engage in actions that move us to change:

    We will convene the leaders of our campus police, the City of Lawrence Police Department, the City Manager and the Mayor to discuss policing strategies that reinforce respectful and community-engaged policing, and to re-emphasize comprehensive police training that does not permit the kinds of acts that led to the death of George Floyd and so many others.
    We will bring together the leaders of our diversity councils to establish a university-level advisory council for equity and inclusion and commit to regular and continued outreach.
    We will charge leaders across campus to participate in training that will allow us to begin the work of facilitating intergroup dialogues that bring together representatives of agent groups and target groups to open up difficult conversations.
    We will partner with leaders in higher education and in the public and private sectors across the Greater Kansas City Region to engage in initiatives that immediately begin to address root causes in key areas that impact racial violence.
    We will ensure that improving equity, diversity and inclusion is explicitly stated as a goal for each team in our COVID-19 Design Challenge and in the longer term, in all of our Jayhawks Rising strategic doing activities.

Memorial Hall Mural: Our Past, Our Present and Why It's Time to Move Forward
By President Eli Capilouto Friday

LEXINGTON, Ky. (June 5, 2020) — On Friday, June 5, University of Kentucky President Eli Capilouto sent the following message to all students, faculty and staff:

 

I have not been able to get the images out of my mind. And the images should be — and will be forever — in my mind.

For eight minutes and 46 seconds, on a street in an American city in 2020, George Floyd was suffocated to death — a knee at his neck, gasps escaping from his mouth, as he pleaded for his life and for his mother.

I can't adequately articulate the horror and disturbing nature of those images to me. I don't have words to capture the mix of emotions — of anger and sadness, disbelief and nagging recognition that we have been here before — that have gnawed at me for days.

But I also know that I can't begin to feel how a Black man or woman or the parent of a Black child processes those images, either.

To every issue, we bring our curated experiences — funneled through the prism of our mind's eye — to an incident like this one or, for that matter, to a work of music, writing or art. Those sounds, images and narratives are necessarily interpreted with the context of a given moment by generations of people over the passage of time.

The simple truth is I can't walk in their shoes. I can't be in their skin. And I can't understand what intergenerational subjugation does to families who are its victims.

But I can try for greater understanding, a deeper sense of empathy and renewed resolve to contribute to healing, to do justice and to find reconciliation. As much as racism is a systemic stain on our country, so too, are we the inheritors of Dr. King's admonition that the moral arc of the universe ultimately bends toward justice. That is where I believe we find ourselves as a campus community today. We have not been immune from racial prejudice and hate, but I believe deeply that there is a commitment to doing better tomorrow than we are doing today.

It's against that imperfect and human backdrop that I am directing our facilities team to immediately begin the process of removing the mural in Memorial Hall.

Why now? And what does this move accomplish?

Just as certain images haunt me, I also cannot escape certain conversations that, over years, remain fresh.

To many, the mural represents the work of a renowned artist, seeking in her time, to represent the evolution, however halting, of her native state. And as with all art, we seek to understand the intent of the artist and bring our own meaning and interpretation to it.

I remember a conversation at Maxwell Place with 24 African American students in the fall of 2015. There, they detailed a list of recommendations that included "racist mural in Memorial Hall." There was a conversation with one student about the mural who stopped me cold with the observation that every time he walked into a class in Memorial Hall, he was forced to reckon with the fact that his forbears were enslaved.

They were chattel; brutalized as disposable property, even though in their time, they were regarded as essential to the economy's progress.

The art, to this student, sought to glorify and sanitize that fact. And he was speaking for many others, over many years, a point made clear again to me recently as we began conversations with our student leaders on how to move forward during this fraught time. The mural once again was a symbol, not of a state's evolution, but of our unwillingness to recognize their experiences as members of our community.

Memorial Hall of course, has its own important story — the story of the UK students and Kentuckians who laid down their lives during the Great War. It is a building constructed in honor of all Kentuckians — African Americans, Native Americans, and women alike — who gave their lives to preserve liberty. 

How do we reconcile those images as perceived now with that narrative?

To be sure, we have discussed the mural for many years and made a number of important, productive efforts to seek common ground and lasting solutions. But the spaces we have created for dialogue, and the work we have commissioned to expand conversation and contextualize art, haven't worked, frankly.

Our efforts and solutions with the mural, for many of our students, have been a roadblock to reconciliation, rather than a path toward healing. That's not a criticism. It is a statement of fact and, I hope, understanding.

We need to move forward. We have a lot of discussion that needs to take place on our campus. And those discussions cannot obviate the necessity of thoughtful, but decisive, action on a number of fronts.

I don't believe we can have that conversation with the mural still, metaphorically, on the table. And, so while in the context of many significant issues we must discuss and decide upon, the mural may appear relatively small, it carries with it tremendous symbolic weight.

I want to remove that weight from the discussions we must have, so that we can act, together, as a community. As we determine how we can move forward with removing the mural, I will communicate with the campus.

There is rarely a perfect solution to challenging issues. But it is the right one, I believe, for our campus at this moment and in the years to come.

Eli Capilouto

--

Media note: Downloadable videos and photo available at https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1BTRFI3FPfLd1tR9KRhmI1AjYRjIrACui?usp=sharing

The University of Kentucky is increasingly the first choice for students, faculty and staff to pursue their passions and their professional goals. In the last two years, Forbes has named UK among the best employers for diversity, and INSIGHT into Diversity recognized us as a Diversity Champion three years running. UK is ranked among the top 30 campuses in the nation for LGBTQ* inclusion and safety. UK has been judged a "Great College to Work for" two years in a row, and UK is among only 22 universities in the country on Forbes' list of "America's Best Employers."  We are ranked among the top 10 percent of public institutions for research expenditures — a tangible symbol of our breadth and depth as a university focused on discovery that changes lives and communities. And our patients know and appreciate the fact that UK HealthCare has been named the state's top hospital for four straight years. Accolades and honors are great. But they are more important for what they represent: the idea that creating a community of belonging and commitment to excellence is how we honor our mission to be not simply the University of Kentucky, but the University for Kentucky.
Message to the UIC Community
May 29, 2020

Dear Faculty, Staff and Students,

This week we saw yet another manifestation of the racism that remains in the fabric of our society. The killing of George Floyd in Minnesota, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky, along with other recent events, remind us again, though we don’t need reminding, how far we still have to go as a society to heal centuries of discrimination and achieve true equality.

We share your grief and outrage and we encourage you to continue to live the values of our university — to be inclusive, to treat each other with dignity and respect, and to provide a safe and supportive environment for each other.

At UIC, we are committed to addressing the deep systemic injustice of racism and advancing equity and inclusion for all people in Chicago, in the nation and around the world.  We are a community that values our differences, our diversity and our shared compassion for humanity. We will always strive to be one grounded in mutual understanding and respect.

If you need support coping with the disturbing events that occurred this week, we encourage you to use the many resources on campus available to support students, faculty and staff.

Sincerely,

Michael Amiridis
Chancellor

Susan Poser
Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs

Robert Barish
Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs

J. Rex Tolliver
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Print Friendly, PDF & Email
Contact
UIC News staff

uicnews-staff@uic.edu
          Reflecting on the events in Minneapolis and beyond
May 30, 2020 11:19 AM

Dear Students, Staff and Faculty,

We, along with so many, are struggling to fully comprehend the systemic violence and the actions of members of the Minneapolis Police Department that resulted in the death of George Floyd this week. This is the home of one of the members of our Big Ten university family and our thoughts are with our colleagues and the broader Minneapolis-St. Paul community today.

And while George Floyd is who we see and mourn this week, we have also witnessed the senseless deaths of Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor this spring.

We stand in the middle of a global health crisis that will claim hundreds of thousands of lives and burden millions of others for a generation to come. These are days when the health of our communities depends entirely on our collective commitment to care for one another. This is when we most need to come together.

It is painful to watch streets filled with more anger and more violence sparked by divisive sources of hatred that our nation seems unable to set aside even when we are all threatened by this virus that does not discriminate in choosing who it harms.

For some of us, this is very, very personal. But the grief, sadness and loss is profound and universal.

The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is a community committed to the scholarship, engagement, equity, inclusion and leadership that dismantles systems that utilize power, privilege and violence to disenfranchise, diminish and destroy.

And unfortunately, this same pandemic that has disrupted so much, also prevents us from coming together physically here at Illinois. We are not able to help each other process what we are seeing and what we are feeling in the way we would wish. So, today, when we cannot raise our voices together, we want to share this message in the hope that it will remind everyone that we do not have to remain silent alone.  

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery. Breonna Taylor. We can say their names and we can help ensure that they are not allowed to be forgotten.  

Sincerely,

Robert J. Jones
Chancellor

Barry Benson
Vice Chancellor for Advancement

Andreas C. Cangellaris
Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and Provost

Sean C. Garrick
Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Susan A. Martinis
Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation

Danita M. B. Young
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

 

          
                   
                  
This mailing approved by:
Office of the Chancellor

sent to:
Everyone
          
                   
 
Massmail Archive   •   Massmail powered by Webtools
 
Students lead the way toward reconciliation
Dr. Joseph Savoie -- Sun, 05/31/2020 - 2:23pm
Dear members of the University family,

George Floyd. Ahmaud Arbery. Breonna Taylor. Tony McDade. 

Their tragic deaths – and those of countless others – are reminders that our nation has much work to do to address discrimination, intolerance and other inexcusable barriers to social justice that have burdened us for far too long.

Universities are a place where that work can occur. Indeed, they are a place where it must occur.

It is the University’s responsibility to model principles of civility, respect and understanding for both its campus family and its wider community. Moreover, it is our duty to embody inclusivity and embrace diversity, and to educate others about their power.

Today, our students exemplified these ideals.

Members of the Student Action and Organizing Committee led a community dialogue on campus about the basic human right that all people – regardless of race, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation or ethnicity – have to live in freedom and security.

These students confronted the sadness, pain and outrage they feel about the events of the past week with clarity and thoughtfulness. They answered insular hate with the diverse voice of which this institution is so proud and from which we draw so much strength.

Our students demonstrated civic engagement and community leadership today, and I applaud them.

Moreover, they showed that the path to binding our nation’s wounds – no matter how deep, how historic and how painful – can be illuminated through conversation rather than violence.

Sincerely,

Dr. Joseph Savoie
President

UM denounces racism
Message from President David T. Barnard
JUNE 2, 2020 — 
 

Dear University Community,

Recent tragic deaths have caused immense suffering and anger as they represent a legacy of racism and police brutality against Black people. We are also witnessing alarming displays of racism against the Asian community in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic; and we recognize the interpersonal and systemic racism that is continually experienced by Indigenous Peoples.

On behalf of the University of Manitoba, I want to say clearly that we denounce racism in all its forms, we commit to solidarity with Black, Indigenous and/or People of Colour (BIPOC) and we commit ourselves to listen, to learn and to do better.

For those of us with privilege, it can be easy to ignore what’s happening, to say that it is not our problem or our story here in Canada. But silence represents ignorance and fear. We must be anti-racist. We must recognize white privilege, and that we exist in systems of white supremacy. We must remember that Canada was built on the lands of the Indigenous Peoples and on the backs of Black and Asian workers. We must join our voices to say enough is enough. 

Though I can never fully understand the experiences of racialized communities, I can commit to educating myself on their stories and histories and I encourage others to do the same. I call on our university community – united in our pursuit of knowledge – to research perspectives beyond our own, to learn the many ways that racism is enforced by our social structures, to seek out difficult truths and to acknowledge harms of the past and the present.

The University of Manitoba community believes in the inherent dignity of all people. We respect our differences, celebrate our commonalities, and are united in our mutual focus on intellectual achievement. We continue to strengthen alliances that are working to increase mutual understanding, respect and support.

Finally, to UM’s racialized students and colleagues, thank you for your strength and resilience. Thank you to those who take the time to educate your peers and colleagues and to speak your truth. Thank you for contributing to the strength of our institution.

We are sorry. Now, we must listen. We must learn. We must do better.

Sincerely,
David

To anyone who is looking for support during this time, please connect with Student Counselling Centre or Employee Assistance Program. If you have experienced discrimination while working or studying at UM, please contact our Office of Human Rights and Conflict Management. UM is also home to a number of groups who are leading crucial work to address racism, and promote diversity and inclusion. 
Statement by USM Leadership on Structural Racism and the Killing of George Floyd
Baltimore, Md. (May 29, 2020) – This week, George Floyd was killed in Minneapolis, a brutal act that recalled other recent killings of black Americans. We acknowledge with one voice the structural racism that’s taking the lives of our fellow citizens, and we stand in solidarity as we speak out against racism, anti-Semitism, sexism, discrimination against our LGBTQ and immigrant communities, religious intolerance, and bigotry of any kind.

We are justly saddened, angered, and frustrated by these acts of brutality and the lack of action when black men and women are killed. Mindful of public health guidelines, we also affirm the right of our communities to protest safely and peacefully to address their legitimate concerns.

We believe that public colleges and universities are obligated to help end inequity and to promote social justice. We draw on the leadership and wisdom of our students, faculty, and staff, many of whom confront these issues every day through their teaching, research, and activism.

We encourage all members of the USM community to seek support, if needed, and to involve themselves in addressing these challenges. We urge our students and colleagues not only to vote, but to help safeguard and improve our democracy.

In the days and weeks ahead, we will be listening to the voices of those who are too often silenced or ignored. When we gather together on campus once again, we will examine with greater resolve the racism and systemic inequities that so gravely endanger our minority communities. We are proud to be a part of a University System that believes in humanity, justice, and opportunity for all.

Please take care of yourselves, your families, and your communities during this difficult time.

Jay A. Perman, Chancellor, University System of Maryland

Aminta Breaux, President, Bowie State University
Anthony Jenkins, President, Coppin State University
Ronald Nowaczyk, President, Frostburg State University
Charles Wight, President, Salisbury University
Kim Schatzel, President, Towson University
Kurt Schmoke, President, University of Baltimore
Bruce E. Jarrell, Interim President, University of Maryland, Baltimore
Freeman A. Hrabowski III, President, University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Peter Goodwin, President, University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science
Wallace D. Loh, President University of Maryland, College Park
Heidi Anderson, President, University of Maryland Eastern Shore
Javier Miyares, President, University of Maryland Global Campus

Stewart Edelstein, Executive Director, Universities at Shady Grove
Mark Halsey, Executive Director, University System of Maryland at Hagerstown
Ben Latigo, Interim Executive Director, University System of Maryland at Southern Maryland


 
Contact: Mike Lurie
Phone: 301.445.2719
Email: mlurie@usmd.edu


Pines: Stand in Solidarity, Unite Against Injustice
President-designate Calls Acts of Violence Against Black Community Nationwide a ‘Stain’ Against UMD Values

By Maryland Today Staff  /  Jun 01, 2020

Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Email
Print this article
Campus aerial shot of Hornbake Library
President-designate Darryll J. Pines writes that the injustices against African Americans in the midst of a pandemic are a double blow to black and brown communities. "They cause additional pain and grief at a time when we are dealing with so many other challenges."
(Photo by John T. Consoli)

University of Maryland President-designate Darryll J. Pines sent the following email to the campus community this afternoon:

Dear University of Maryland Community:

On Wednesday morning, May 26, 2020, I woke up to go through my normal daily routine of getting prepared for the workday. But even before I could start my morning walk with my dog, my cellphone was already vibrating with texts and emails about something that had happened the evening before. Many colleagues, family members and friends had sent me links to the now-infamous video of yet another black man losing his life at the hands of law enforcement. This time, for allegedly using a counterfeit $20 bill at a local shop in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

I took a moment to click on the links and watch the more than nine-minute video of the last breath being sucked out of the body of Mr. George Floyd. As a black man, I screamed words that I cannot repeat here. As a father, I started to reflect on the safety of my son and daughter and on all the diverse communities who are negatively impacted by acts of injustice. I asked myself, what is wrong with our country when these incidents continue to happen time and time again?

In recent weeks we have again witnessed senseless acts of violence perpetrated against the black community. The tragic loss of lives—those of George Floyd in Minneapolis, and before that, the deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, Tony McDade and Sean Reed—due to racial violence is deeply saddening and a stain against the values that we personally hold, and that the University of Maryland, as an institution, cherishes.

The fact that these horrific acts have occurred in the midst of a pandemic is a double blow to black and brown communities. They cause additional pain and grief at a time when we are dealing with so many other challenges. But the shameful reality is that the virus has disproportionately affected communities of color. It has exposed the base inequities of our health care system and made painfully clear how those who have suffered so many other injustices for so long must also unequally bear the burden of this disease. These additional acts of racism and hatred bring into greater focus the injustices occurring in our nation.

The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., once said that:

"The ultimate measure of a man is not where one stands in moments of comfort and convenience but where one stands in times of challenge and controversy."

As a university community, we must not accept these latest incidents as inconsequential. We all must rise up and stand together to show our humanity to one another. We must remind ourselves of Dr. King’s words that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." Finally, we must heed the words of the late President John F. Kennedy, "what unites us is greater than what divides us."

Even though we are physically separated, now is the time to stand in solidarity and unite against any injustice.

Sincerely,

Darryll J. Pines
Glenn L. Martin Professor of Aerospace Engineering
President-Designate
University of Maryland

Tags:Campus & Community

Taking Action at UMass Amherst to Combat Racism: A Message from Nefertiti Walker, Interim Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
June 3, 2020
Dear Campus Community, 

Today, I write to you with a range of emotions. Fear for protesters, some of whom encounter fierce violence. Disappointment in our country for not reckoning with our intimate relationship with anti-Black racism. Frustrated at our institutions for failing to undo the institutionalized racism that we know to be true. 

For years, Black people and allies have been pleading for the end of racism and the violence that follows. Most recently, we cried out for change after the lost lives of Trayvon Martin, Tamir Rice, Michael Brown, Philando Castile, Eric Garner and Sandra Bland, and more recently Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and George Floyd. This list is not conclusive. This list is void of many lives lost to anti-Black racism, and countless other lives devastated by the omnipresence of our nation’s most pervasive disease, racism. 

We have been repeatedly challenged by this violence and by other disturbing acts – increased anti-Asian racism, growing xenophobia and escalating anti-Semitic attacks. This cannot, and will not, be our normal at UMass. We are hopeful and encouraged by the work we have been doing to combat racism and will continue to work tirelessly to undo it in our community. 

To that point, we are immediately getting to work with the following:

Respectful Workplace Training Series. In collaboration with the Office of Equity and Inclusion, Workplace Learning & Development and The Partnership for Worker Education, the purpose is to educate staff about resources available and supervisors (including faculty) on their responsibilities to ensure a university work environment grounded in antiracism, respect and inclusion.
Critical Incident Team. We are developing a triage team to respond consistently to critical campus issues and lead with humanity. More details to follow.
Campus Academy Initiative. The University of Massachusetts Police Department is applying for a team of campus and student leaders (including UMPD representation) to attend a three-day Campus Academy Initiative workshop in August 2020, offered by the Divided Community Project. The aim of the program is to immerse campus leaders in a curriculum aimed at strengthening and expanding campus-specific conflict-resolution capacity and practices. UMPD is committed to participating, as part of our community, in any training, seminar or effort to increase levels of understanding, prevention and responsiveness to critical issues like the ones we continue to see play out across our country.
Increased Data-driven Climate Assessments. We know that within our UMass community, we have micro cultures where people live – in their academic departments, classrooms and residence halls. We need to better understand these climates. Therefore, we will launch a series of assessments to measure and better understand the micro cultures that often impact our community most. This data will then be aggregated and live on the www.umass.edu/diversity website, providing transparency and the ability to inform the actions of the newly formed councils and task force below.
The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leadership Council. This council will convene immediately and be charged by the Chancellor and chaired by the Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. This group will meet regularly to assess, evaluate and advise about the university’s DEI policies and practices. Their meeting minutes will be uploaded to: www.umass.edu/diversity. 
The DEI Student Council. This will be co-chaired by the Senior Director of DEI  and the Assistant Chancellor of Advocacy, Inclusion and Support Programs. This group will meet with student DEI representatives to discuss and advance the most pressing student DEI issues. Similarly, their meeting minutes will be uploaded to: www.umass.edu/diversity.
The Task Force for Anti-racism. In response to the most recent anti-Black violence as well as the increase of other types of racism nationally, this group will be a collection of faculty, staff and students who will work to undo institutional racism in our community. They will be chaired or co-chaired by a combination of faculty, staff and students. More details to follow.
Finally, we will work with each major business unit on campus to set goals related to diversity (representation/under-representation), equity (access and opportunity), and inclusion (feeling welcome and sense of belonging). Leaders will be responsible for setting a culture of inclusion for all people in their area. Therefore, we will set and seek to meet DEI goals as they align with our campus strategic goal of inclusive excellence.

We encourage our students, staff and faculty to exercise their right to speak against the injustice they see in our society, and we implore you to join us in being part of the solutions. These resources will guide and support you in your quest for equity.

Racism, in its many forms, did not emerge overnight or in the past week. It has matured for hundreds of years. Therefore, it will take time and deliberate effort to confront. It will require intentional goal setting, data-informed decision making, and anti-racist action, to truly achieve our goal of inclusive excellence. 

Sincerely,

Nefertiti A. Walker, Ph.D.
Interim Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Chief Diversity Officer 
Driving Change and Reform Needed
Dear Faculty, Staff and Students:

Over the course of the past seven years, together our campus community has faced and overcome many difficult challenges. As we continue to grapple with COVID-19 and its harsh economic consequences, recent national events have revealed some ugly and enduring inequities in American society, sparking anxiety, upset and outrage. In a period of American history unclear and confused in direction and purpose, one thing is abundantly clear. We cannot solve problems we do not acknowledge. The pain and loss of this pandemic have not been evenly distributed in Memphis, in Tennessee, nor across the United States. The most vulnerable among us carry the majority of that burden. This pandemic has revealed decades-long and enduring economic and health-care inequities that cut along racial lines and are at the foundation of that vulnerability. That pain has only been magnified by recent hate-filled violence against African-American men.

As an institution of higher education in one of the most diverse communities in America, our University is committed to being part of the solution. We are a place of hope, healing and healthy debate. We have an identified set of core values that embrace fairness, equity and justice, and we are committed to living those on a daily basis, particularly when they are most needed. It is clear that Memphis needs us, and we are here to help. I will be reaching out to our campus to assist in facilitating the change and reform needed. I am proud to be a Memphian, and a part of a community that works together. Our University is committed to being a part of the solution and helping drive the change and reform needed.  

Regards, 

M. David Rudd, Ph.D., ABPP
President, University of Memphis
Distinguished University Professor of Psychology

Admissions

Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour
Academics

Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware
Athletics

gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media
Research

Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research
Support UofM

Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Administrative Support

President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology
Services
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation
UofM Global Explore Lambuth Campus
Follow UofM Online

Instagram
Facebook
twitter
Youtube
Linkedn
TNeCampus.info
Tennessee Transfer Pathway
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis
Important Notice
 Last Updated: 6/1/20
The University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000
The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.
We need to bring about change
May 29, 2020
I have watched and read in horror reports of the death of George Floyd in Minnesota. Many members of the University of Michigan community have reached out to me to express their heartache and anger that another unarmed African American has been killed by police, who have violated their duty to protect and serve.

I want to thank those of you who have shared your personal feelings on this tragedy. I know that your pain is very real and profound. Many members of our community are experiencing this tragedy in ways that are inseparable from their race and ethnicity – and in ways that I will never be able to fully and personally realize. For instance, our Chief Diversity Officer Robert Sellers has very poignantly written about his experiences today.

I condemn the actions that caused the tragic deaths of George Floyd, of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and of Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. There are far, far too many more examples of racism and violence against people of color from all across our nation, including in our surrounding community.

The reality and scope of this problem are pervasive. A 2018 study whose authors included U-M Institute for Social Research fellow Michael Esposito found that "the risk of being killed by police, relative to White men, is between 3.2 and 3.5 times higher for Black men." Thanks to U-M Political Science Prof. Christian Davenport, we know that the exercising of fundamental rights is treated differently, as "African American protest events are more likely to draw police presence, even when we control for the measures of behavioral threat."

At U-M, we must use our power to address major societal problems – especially those that diminish our society so tragically. This is clear in our mission.

Our mission is also why our work to enhance diversity, equity and inclusion must continue. The University of Michigan has a critical role to play and obligation to lead the kind of changes in our society that we all want to see. I know that our Division of Public Safety and Security is committed to being a continuing partner in this ongoing work. DEI will continue as a major focus of the institution throughout my presidency, beyond our initial five-year Strategic Plan. We must utilize our scholarship, the education and the engagement of our talented faculty, students, and staff to bring about change not only within the university, but also in our broader society. Our collective future depends on it.

During this difficult time, I urge anyone who needs support to access our university's resources.

Students on all three campuses can receive support through CAPS, the university's counseling and psychological services. All faculty and staff in Ann Arbor, Dearborn and Flint can access services through the Faculty and Staff Counseling and Consultation Office. Michigan Medicine faculty and staff can access resources through Office of Counseling and Workplace Resilience.
Skip to navigationSkip to content
Committees
Chancellor Appearance Request
Contact
Office of the Chancellor
University of Missouri

About Planning Inside Mizzou Remarks & Presentations Distinguished Leaders Lecture
June 4, 2020: Tigers leading change
Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Alumni,

Over the last several days, we have seen an outpouring of support for those who have faced racism, both in our community and throughout the country.

University leaders and I have sent notes in recent days voicing our sorrow over the recent injustices and tragic deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor. We have vowed to do more as we have met with numerous black students, staff and faculty who have described the immense toll that systemic discrimination and racism has taken on their confidence in justice, on their mental health and on their hope that true change will ever happen.

We have been watching closely the social media thread #BlackatMizzou on Twitter and Instagram since it began earlier this week and are listening to powerful testimonies from our previous and current students featured there. I can tell you my heart has been rocked by this experience as have many others, and those who shared these posts should know their experiences are valued and have not been ignored.

Each tweet is a sobering reminder of the ugliness many of you have faced. I have been discussing these comments with our deans, faculty and university leaders, and we are learning from the common themes shared while also looking into some specific cases mentioned. These stories of name calling, racist assumptions and lack of response to injustice illustrate to me that our work is far from done related to inclusion, diversity and equity. I wish I could have been there each time these incidents occurred to call out the perpetrators, to hold them accountable and to support those who’ve been affected. But, that’s not possible. So, I call upon each one of us to take the stand to confront discrimination when it happens and to provide care and compassion to those who have suffered from it.

Mizzou continues to be committed to creating an inclusive community where everyone can live, learn and work in an environment that supports and celebrates each individual. I am grateful to our many students, faculty and staff who have worked tirelessly for change at Mizzou. I assure you that we will not stop pressing, and we will strive to spread the responsibility from those who have shouldered the brunt of the work to the larger community. Over the last several years we have done a lot of planning and created some progress and action. We all must do more.

Our community must address this important work together. Some are asking for details of our progress in recent years. To that end, we are organizing community conversations soon to discuss what we have been doing and how we can build on that foundation for a better Mizzou. We will share details in the coming weeks.

On behalf of the faculty, department chairs, deans, provost and the staff, I confirm that we will take important positive actions.

We know our Tiger family will lead change.

Mun Y. Choi, Ph.D.

UM System President and interim MU Chancellor

University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211
573-882-2121

© 2020 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution.

Skip to navigationSkip to content
Committees
Chancellor Appearance Request
Contact
Office of the Chancellor
University of Missouri

About Planning Inside Mizzou Remarks & Presentations Distinguished Leaders Lecture
June 4, 2020: Tigers leading change
Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Alumni,

Over the last several days, we have seen an outpouring of support for those who have faced racism, both in our community and throughout the country.

University leaders and I have sent notes in recent days voicing our sorrow over the recent injustices and tragic deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor. We have vowed to do more as we have met with numerous black students, staff and faculty who have described the immense toll that systemic discrimination and racism has taken on their confidence in justice, on their mental health and on their hope that true change will ever happen.

We have been watching closely the social media thread #BlackatMizzou on Twitter and Instagram since it began earlier this week and are listening to powerful testimonies from our previous and current students featured there. I can tell you my heart has been rocked by this experience as have many others, and those who shared these posts should know their experiences are valued and have not been ignored.

Each tweet is a sobering reminder of the ugliness many of you have faced. I have been discussing these comments with our deans, faculty and university leaders, and we are learning from the common themes shared while also looking into some specific cases mentioned. These stories of name calling, racist assumptions and lack of response to injustice illustrate to me that our work is far from done related to inclusion, diversity and equity. I wish I could have been there each time these incidents occurred to call out the perpetrators, to hold them accountable and to support those who’ve been affected. But, that’s not possible. So, I call upon each one of us to take the stand to confront discrimination when it happens and to provide care and compassion to those who have suffered from it.

Mizzou continues to be committed to creating an inclusive community where everyone can live, learn and work in an environment that supports and celebrates each individual. I am grateful to our many students, faculty and staff who have worked tirelessly for change at Mizzou. I assure you that we will not stop pressing, and we will strive to spread the responsibility from those who have shouldered the brunt of the work to the larger community. Over the last several years we have done a lot of planning and created some progress and action. We all must do more.

Our community must address this important work together. Some are asking for details of our progress in recent years. To that end, we are organizing community conversations soon to discuss what we have been doing and how we can build on that foundation for a better Mizzou. We will share details in the coming weeks.

On behalf of the faculty, department chairs, deans, provost and the staff, I confirm that we will take important positive actions.

We know our Tiger family will lead change.

Mun Y. Choi, Ph.D.

UM System President and interim MU Chancellor

University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211
573-882-2121

© 2020 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution.

Chancellor Green: 'Racism in any form is wrong and has no place in our lives'
Nebraska students hand out "Hate Will Never Win" T-shirts in the Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center before a campus rally in February 2018.
Craig Chandler | University Communication
Nebraska students hand out "Hate Will Never Win" T-shirts in the Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center before a campus rally in February 2018
Editor's Note — Chancellor Ronnie Green was among higher education leaders who responded to the national protests spurred by the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. The chancellor's message, which is below, was released May 30 via his Twitter account to connect immediately with students, faculty, staff and the broader community.

Chancellor Ronnie Green delivers his third State of the University address on Jan. 15. The speech examined the university's 150-year history and charted a course to 2025 and beyond.
Craig Chandler | University Communication
Chancellor Ronnie Green
Jane and I are sickened by the horrific injustice in Minneapolis, and the other forms of injustice that we know we don't see first-hand. Our hearts ache for the senseless loss of George Floyd and his family — and too many others.

Racism in any form is wrong and has no place in our lives, our communities, or institutions. Yet it remains.

Those of us entrusted to leading institutions must stay committed to truly listening, truly learning and to understanding our own bias. We need to encourage honest conversations, big and small, that can help bridge this divide and address deeply embedded histories of exclusion.

I hope and continue to believe that higher education, particularly institutions focused on access, can play a positive role in these conversations.

Review the chancellor's message and responses it received on Twitter.
A message of solidarity from UNLV President Marta Meana
MAY. 31, 2020
Dear colleagues and students,

It is with a heavy heart that I reach out to you in light of the appalling death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis Police. This is just the last in a far too long list of similar atrocities and there is only so much we can bear.

UNLV stands in solidarity with our African American faculty, staff, and students in denouncing this heinous act, in expecting accountability, and in demanding systemic change. The distress that this has caused in our community runs wide and deep. Racism is a far greater long-term threat to this country of ours than any virus. We need to confront it head on and together.

Universities have a responsibility to be beacons in the journey out of this unacceptable state of affairs. Let us double down on our efforts. We need to do this for each other. We need to do this for ourselves.

With sadness and hope,

Marta Meana, Ph.D.
UNLV President
I can’t breathe—again

As we gathered our thoughts at having to address, once again, the reality of the brutal death of an unarmed black man, George Floyd, we must categorically condemn the racism, abuse of power and brutality that led to his death. Mr. Floyd, who pleaded repeatedly for his life—I can’t breathe—eerily evocative of the equally violent death of Eric Garner and so many other black lives, is yet another deeply troubling lost life that ought to serve as a day of reckoning for all of us. As a nation, not only have we not resolved the historically deep wounds of structural racism, inequality, injustice and violence in our country, but those divisions, dramatically intensified in recent times, significantly challenge our democracy. We know from extensive evidence that hate and racial violence have increased to frightening levels in recent years. Let us also bear witness to the fact that in a few months we will be marking the one year anniversary of the El Paso mass killings, one of the deadliest anti-Latino and anti-emigrant hate crimes of recent years; a year ago, also, the shooting in the Poway synagogue took place; increasing attacks on mosques, and many others. These sobering realities must continue guiding our educational mandate on equity and inclusion through meaningful collaborations and much needed healing. Our deepest sense of solidarity to the family of Mr. George Floyd. Our particular support goes out to our Black students, faculty and staff in these somber moments.

Sincerely,

Marc A. Johnson
President
and
Eloisa Gordon-Mora
University Diversity and Inclusion Officer
President, Provost call for focus on core values in wake of George Floyd's death Minneapolis
June 1, 2020

Dear UNH Community,

Like virtually all Americans, we reacted with horror at the recent death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. This was particularly painful coming on the heels of the shooting of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. While the circumstances of these deaths were different, they all underscore the risks to black people interacting with police or simply going about their daily lives (as was demonstrated vividly by what happened to Christian Cooper in New York City). It is beyond belief that more than 50 years after the passage of the Civil Rights Act, nearly 30 years after Rodney King’s beating, six years after the shooting of Michael Brown and the choking death of Eric Garner, tragedies like this continue to occur. It is clear that, as former President Obama said in a recent statement, "If we want our children to grow up in a nation that lives up to its highest ideals, we can and must do better." Our hearts go out to our African American students, faculty, staff and alumni who are particularly affected by these events.

What is the responsibility of a public university like the University of New Hampshire in this situation? We have an obligation to fight ignorance, intolerance and bias, and to teach equality, respect and kindness—these are core values at UNH . The university is where we tackle societal challenges and work together to find solutions. This is founded on our mission to support the bedrock American principle that we are all created equal, and that all of us, regardless of any differences, should enjoy equal rights, opportunities and freedoms. It is fair to say that this passion for freedom is particularly acute in New Hampshire. We must ensure that our students and the whole UNH community deeply understand this shared commitment to our fellow citizens, to better understand when it has been violated. Our recent climate survey revealed that we have our own work to do in this area, which we will continue to do.

We cannot remain silent in the face of the trauma that these events inflict on marginalized communities across the country. We are united in our rejection of hate and intolerance, and call upon all in our community to support each other and those who are surely feeling the weight of these events. We all must renew our commitment to providing a safe and inclusive environment for everyone at UNH, including in interactions with UNH and Durham police. UNH Police Chief Paul Dean has worked extensively to build strong positive relationships with underrepresented students and has provided direction and training to his officers to do the same. Durham Police Chief Dave Kurz has done this as well.

As a research university, we also have the responsibility to address significant national issues. We will conduct a review of our research portfolio and look for opportunities to stimulate and support research on this important national problem. We hope that research can help us to identify practical steps that can be taken to protect the well-being and safety of all Americans while also improving our own racial understanding.

In the coming weeks, we will be meeting with and creating opportunities for faculty, staff and students to come together and share their input and guidance on responding to this challenge. Even in the face of the pandemic and the need to work and learn remotely, we must not lose sight of the importance of all aspects of our mission. In the aftermath of experiencing or witnessing trauma, it is normal to experience a range of feelings and emotions, such as shock, fear, sadness, anger, helplessness or guilt. For those members of our community who are feeling the trauma of this most acutely, we want to remind you that services continue to be available including: Psychological and Counseling Services (PACS); the Beauregard Center (formerly OMSA); Health and Wellness; and the Office of Community Equity and Diversity.

This is in so many ways a challenging time in America, but we as a people have risen to challenges before, and we will find ways to meet this one. We will be in touch with more detail on opportunities for education, research and conversation soon. In the meantime, our wish for all of you is health and safety.

James W. Dean, Jr.
President

Wayne Jones
Vice President and Provost
Leaders at The University of New Mexico have issued strong statements
condemning the brutal killing of George Floyd by police officers in Minnesota
on Memorial Day and the actions of those seeking to prompt further violence at
ensuing protests.
"Watching what is happening across our nation, I join the many voices who are
outraged and condemn not only the actions of the officers who killed George
Floyd, but police brutality against any and all communities of color," said UNM
President Garnett S. Stokes.
Following reports that extremist groups were using civil protests against police
brutality to further elicit violence, President Stokes stated that "peaceful protest
is a healthy way for people to express the hurt, fear and anger these types of
actions incite." She went on to say, "It is abhorrent that white nationalist groups
are taking cover behind legitimate national protests concerning George Floyd and
police brutality to provoke violence against black businesses and society at large."
UNM Police Chief Kevin McCabe issued the
following statement:
"What transpired in Minneapolis this past Memorial Day was appalling and
disgusting – in my opinion, this does not represent American law enforcement and
those who committed this heinous act or stood by and did nothing to intervene
lack the humanity, integrity, and honor to wear the badge of a police officer.
Their senseless actions have stained every professional law enforcement officer
who swore an oath to protect and defend the communities they serve but it is
also a clear call for all of us to stand against this type of abuse of power.
As a police chief, to see this type of brutality makes me sick but I am confident
that justice will prevail in this case. I, along with every member of The University
of New Mexico Police Department, not only strive to do our very best every day
to protect and serve those within our community but also be examples of police
officers that our community expects and deserves."
May 30, 2020
ALL UNIVERSITY MESSAGE
Message from campus leaders on events in Minneapolis
Carolina is committed to fostering an environment whereby the personal rights, lives and dignity of every member of our community matters.

Posted by University Communications, Saturday, May 30th, 2020
Bell Tower
The UNC Bell Tower on the campus of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill October 6, 2016. (Photo by Jon Gardiner/UNC-Chapel Hill)
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Pinterest
Share via Email
Print Friendly
Like so many of you, we have seen the recent events in Minneapolis where George Floyd, an unarmed Black man, died while in the custody of police officers. We denounce the actions of the police officers and support the decision to hold those responsible accountable.

This incident comes on the heels of similar acts of violence against Black people across the country. As we struggle to comprehend these events, we share your sadness, grief and frustration, and recognize the pain the recurrence of such senseless acts of violence and racism causes for so many members of our community. We add our voices to those calling for transparency and accountability.  

We are committed to fostering an environment whereby the personal rights, lives and dignity of every member of our university community matters. The events of this week underscore the important work of our Campus Safety Commission,and we are grateful for their continued efforts and collaborations with campus leadership.   

As we build our community together, even while many of us are apart, we hope that we all take some time to check in on each other. Next week, the University Office for Diversity and Inclusion, which seeks to unite our Carolina community and foster a sense of belonging and safety for all, will offer a space on its website for #YourVoiceMatters, where you may share your thoughts, perspectives and feelings anonymously. We hope you will participate.  

We recognize the stress these events cause members of our community, especially the Black community, and encourage anyone needing help to utilize the following  available resources. For students, you can contact the Office of the Dean of Students or Counseling and Psychological Services.  The Employee Assistance Program is available for faculty and staff.  

In solidarity and with unwavering resolve, 

Kevin M. Guskiewicz
Chancellor  

Robert A. Blouin
Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost 

Sibby Anderson Thompkins 
Special Assistant to the Chancellor and Provost
Interim Chief Diversity Officer 

George Battle
Vice Chancellor for Institutional Integrity and Risk Management 

David Perry
Associate Vice Chancellor and Chief of UNC Police 
Saturday, May 30, 2020
Dear Niner Nation,

Like so many of you and others around the nation, I was heartbroken by George Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on Monday night and the horrifying video of his final moments. The recent killings of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery are further examples of the systemic racial injustice that continues to plague our country.

I want to acknowledge the pain, trauma, and frustration that many of our students, faculty, and staff are feeling. These events have a powerful and personal impact on members of our community. Last night in Charlotte, we witnessed the community's unrest in response to the death of George Floyd as many people organized in protest of the ongoing racism against the Black community. 

I join with others to ask: What can I do? What can we do as a University that is committed to creating an equitable and safe environment for our students, faculty, and staff in one of the most diverse and vibrant urban cities in America?

As a community of educators and scholars, we hold a special responsibility to raise our voices to condemn the violence against Black people, other people of color, and other historically marginalized identities. It is up to us to lead, modeling civility, respect, and holding true to the values of diversity and inclusion that ensure all members of our community will thrive. At UNC Charlotte, I want us to question why incidents such as these occur, and what role we can play in creating an equitable and just world. We cannot accept apathy or indifference or silence; otherwise, we allow hatred, prejudice, and intolerance to grow.

One of the many special qualities of Niner Nation is the rich diversity of our community, feedback we consistently hear from students about why they love this University. For our African-American students, faculty, and staff, know that your Niner Nation family is here to support you. We always want to ensure that everyone feels welcome on campus, and that we are consistently providing a safe and inclusive environment.

If you need support during this time, please do not hesitate to reach out to the resources available to you. 

Counseling services are available to faculty and staff through the Employee Assistance Program and to students through the Christine F. Price Center for Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). These services will continue throughout the summer. Our Office of Identity, Equity and Engagement staff members are also available to support members of our community.  

The Counseling and Psychological Services Center is hosting a student-centered Healing and Empowerment Gathering on WebEx to develop self-care, coping strategies, and connection for Black students who have been impacted by racial injustice from 2 p.m. - 3:30 p.m., Thursday, June 4. You may register here. 

Unfortunately, as we know all too well, racism and bigotry will not end overnight. But we will never create a community and world where everyone is equally valued and protected unless we speak out, show up, and advocate for the rights of all.

Sincerely,

Chancellor Philip L. Dubois
Philip L. Dubois
Chancellor
We Must Stand Together – An Official Notice from the President
Monday, June 1, 2020

Dear UNT faculty and staff,

We are all deeply disturbed and saddened by the tragic events that led to the murder of George Floyd. Once again, we ask why an unarmed black man was killed by a police officer while colleagues looked on without intervening. People of color and white allies everywhere in our country have shown their shock and outrage through protests, and the collective rage people feel has led to more violent actions while we wait for answers. But no answers have been given. 

Thoughtful people everywhere want to see justice and racial equity, and we all hope and pray for an end to the bitter institutional racism to which we all bear witness. While there have been cries of condemnation for these horrific events, there has not been a cohesive national dialogue, and I fear the violent reactions we see are creating yet deeper divides. 

For some of our community members, these events feel all too familiar and there is concern that this could happen to them. Here in Denton, and at UNT, we are not immune to the challenges that the Black Community and law enforcement are facing. A former Black student was stopped at night last week by our campus police for not having a safety light on his bike. After our police confirmed that he had an outstanding warrant, this young man attempted to flee and was arrested after a brief struggle. This is an all too common scene in modern America and calls for all of us to do better as we negotiate the nexus of law enforcement and fear. 

In the fog of peaceful protests and with cities in flames, most of us are isolated from our normal campus connections and, lacking normal dialogue, we respond by listening to emotionally charged and often inaccurate social media. We take sides, and it becomes so easy to "like"or comment in ways that dehumanize those whose views don't match our own.

Before the COVID-19 crisis, we started to take a harder look at our culture, and the impact of discrimination and racism on our campus. That dialogue, and the healthy response to becoming a more intentionally inclusive campus, largely stopped as we took on yet another crisis. Today, I am calling on everyone in our community to show our caring and compassionate values. It is a time to come together – to listen – and to have the difficult and uncomfortable conversations we need to become the inclusive and caring community we aspire to be.

This week, I am inviting our community to rekindle these discussions. Our university will host two Black Lives Matter President's Virtual Town Halls with the first one set for students from 2 to 3:30 p.m. Friday, June 5. The second one is for faculty and staff and will be hosted from 2 to 3:30 p.m. Monday, June 8. The discussions will be framed around the three questions: How are we feeling? How does this relate to my experience at UNT? How can we move forward? Community members can ask questions during the event or send me questions in advance to untpresident@unt.edu.

As a higher education community, we want peace and racial justice as we continue honestly reckoning with our past. I hope you will join me and other campus leaders in this critical conversation that will help us return to campus as a stronger, more united community that celebrates our diversity, caring nature and commitment to a community where everyone feels equally valued.

Respectfully,

Neal Smatresk
UNT President
George Floyd’s tragic death cries out for justice and a recommitment to fight racism. Recalling the image of Father Hesburgh and Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. locked hand-in-hand in 1964, we pray, on this Feast of Pentecost: Come, Holy Spirit, inspire us to work for justice, solidarity and a healing of divisions." 
May 31, 2020

Ninety-nine years ago today, blood began to flow down Black Wall Street and the Tulsa Race Massacre ensued, marking one of the most tragic events in the history of our state and nation. And now, nearly a century later, we continue to live with the same violence and vitriol. The recent killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and George Floyd are stark examples of black lives lost due to senseless brutality. We know that racism in all of its forms, explicit and implicit, is never more unfair than when it leads to the needless loss of a life. To become the country we know we can be, we must honestly address the issues that underlie these societal divisions and make real, systemic change. I urge our entire OU family to lend support, advocacy, and love to the marginalized black members of our own community. Together, we are stronger.

Joseph Harroz, Jr.
President  
Recognize today’s challenges; provide comfort and care
June 1, 2020

Colleagues, 

If anything is certain in these very uncertain times, it’s that racism exists in our society.

So what does one say when it seems like there might not be anything one can do to immediately fix things? Under normal circumstances, we might hold one another or offer words of encouragement, anything to show that we care. We would be present with one another. Yet, we are denied that at this moment because of the COVID-19 pandemic.

A collection of recent events – from the newly launched investigation into the slaying of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia to the black birdwatcher in Central Park who was threatened by a white woman to the brutal killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis – have left many of us feeling hopeless, scared, and exhausted.

My request here is that we all, faculty in particular, provide extra flexibility for members of the community who are at their limit because of the ongoing inequities involving so many others. That these challenges around race are occurring in the face of the challenges we are seeing from the pandemic makes it even worse. It is OK to acknowledge our exhaustion, as the coronavirus has pushed our community hard, and we have risen to the occasion beyond what nearly anyone could have imagined.

We are exhausted, but we are resilient, and we are getting there. But the circumstances of the last few days, as well as the general climate around race and justice over the preceding years, decades, and indeed centuries brings into bright relief the continuing inequities within our society. The civil unrest around the George Floyd killing has ripped open the wounds and threatened to grind our exhaustion into despair.

What words can I offer to ameliorate these feelings? None that can authentically speak to the true feelings that only the lived experience of the individual can truly validate. Our faculty, staff, and students of color – particularly our black students – are feeling scared, angry, and they are questioning what the world is doing to address injustice.

Not enough. Never enough.

We each sit with our own thoughts at this moment. We cannot hug each other when we need it most. But what we can do is acknowledge that we are going through this together, and that we must support each other as we can. But we must also recognize that different members of the community will be suffering more than others, and we must recognize that that suffering is born from each individual’s experience and life path.

So, as we bring this term to a close, I request that all faculty recognize that students may be going through a particularly tough period that makes it difficult for them to focus on their schoolwork. As you know, we have already instituted a flexible pass/no-pass structure for all students in all courses. This should provide students with flexibility and solace as they finish out their work. However, I also ask all faculty to be very open if a student requests that they might need a little more time to finish off an assignment that is due this week and to do so without question.

Let’s also make sure we accommodate and care for each other. Our work this spring has required an unprecedented level of flexibility and generosity of spirit. I am very grateful for everyone’s hard work in making that generosity a hallmark of the UO community. Indeed, I sense that we have always felt it as one of our core principles. But now we can be assured that it is a rock upon which we will continue to mount a response to each and every challenge—and a rapidly changing world—together.

Sincerely,

Patrick Phillips
Provost and Senior Vice President
Statement on the death of George Floyd
May 30, 2020
Amy Gutmann, President

Once again our nation mourns. The tragic and senseless death of George Floyd is a vivid reminder of the inequalities and unacceptable indignities that so many of our citizens constantly endure. The events in Minneapolis this week should lead everyone to recognize how much more work our society must do to realize liberty and justice for all. As a nation we have much work to do.

While the entire Penn community weeps, and our hearts are filled with sadness for this senseless loss of life, we should remember the importance of Penn’s commitment to doing our part to create a more inclusive and mutually respectful environment and society free from discrimination and deprivation.

I especially want Penn’s African American students, faculty, and staff to know how much they and their contributions to our community are treasured. It is particularly important at this difficult time that Penn’s students of color know their University supports them, which we unequivocally do. While we may be apart physically at this point in time, we are truly together in spirit.

We all long for the day when we never again bear witness to such a needless death. Our prayers are for the Floyd family, and for a healing of our nation’s soul. Let all of us in the Penn community use this moment to recommit, from the deepest corners of our hearts, to creating a living and learning environment that is truly safe and welcoming for all.
Statement on Racial Injustice and the Death of George Floyd
June 2, 2020
Dear Members of the University Community: 

It is impossible to forget the image of George Floyd, gasping for air as a police officer who is sworn to protect and defend calmly kneels on his neck until he dies. It is both a shocking scene of violence that should never happen and a potent reminder that it continues to happen all the time.

The painful truth is that persistent and systemic racism continues to fuel a deep injustice toward African Americans. The familiarity of this tragedy has ignited widespread protests and demonstrations—not only across our country, but across the globe.

We are outraged because it is outrageous. How many times must we witness these blatant examples of injustice, hatred, brutality and discrimination before we resolve to change things?  

This is a time for demonstrating solidarity with our African American community. To the University of Pittsburgh’s African American students, faculty, staff and alumni: We stand with you in demanding better and are committed to working with you to make meaningful changes.    

Unfortunately, grief and anger are emotions too easily exploited. Some are happy to create confusion, sow conflict and incite violence and ultimately erode our fundamental rights to peaceably gather and demand real change. This, too, is a painfully familiar pattern. Against a rising toll of injury, death and recrimination, we stand to lose our solidarity—replacing it with ever-deepening divisions.  

Do we have to go down this road?

In this moment of raw grief and anger, we must plot a path forward. We must find ways to build bridges, listen and empathize—even when it is uncomfortable. And we must demand better of our leaders, holding them accountable by voting and pushing to reform the laws and institutions of our democracy. Working together, we have enormous power to realize change.

But this is also a time to turn the lens inward and consider our institution’s own role in perpetuating unfair structures and systems. A university is not an ivory tower but an extension of society—a place dedicated to advancing knowledge for everyone’s gain. Racism degrades our pursuit of true equality, liberty and justice, and it undermines our ability to create opportunity through teaching, research and service. Our university must become a better, more equitable place, and we can do more.

These local efforts may seem like small acts in the face of a national civil crisis, but they can catalyze powerful change. The University of Pittsburgh is a longstanding leader in our region. Yet, for all of our remarkable accomplishments, African Americans living within the Cathedral of Learning’s shadow are still confronting an alarming opportunity gap. We can expand our efforts to translate our work into practice and spur a local renaissance in our surrounding neighborhoods and communities.

Reshaping our university to be more diverse, inclusive and just—while also expanding our reach and impact in promoting social justice—is a significant effort, and we will need to resource and sustain this transformation over time. Because of this, I am putting our nearly complete strategic planning process—which aims to chart Pitt’s course over the next five years—on hold. This pause will give us time to incorporate specific strategies to strengthen our commitments to racial equity and justice. I will need your help in identifying the most promising initiatives in this final plan, and I hope you will participate.  

To jumpstart this work, we are scheduling and planning a number of opportunities to convene virtually so that we can share ideas, experiences and expertise related to eliminating racism and injustice near and far. In the days ahead, we must continue to stand in solidarity as we work to forge a better, more equitable future for all.  

Respectfully, 

Patrick Gallagher
Black Lives Matter: A GSO Perspective
Aerial view of the URI Narragansett Bay Campus
June 4, 2020
A statement from URI Graduate School of Oceanography Dean Bruce Corliss.
I am writing to follow up my statement last week in On the Waterfront should you not have had the opportunity to read it. The senseless death of George Floyd has created despair and anger across the country and, as the URI Senior Leadership Team stated in a recent email, is a reminder of the oppression and injustice still too prevalent in our society. The Graduate School of Oceanography and the University of Rhode Island are committed to a more just and equitable society and university community. I write to re-confirm that commitment to promote and respect diversity and justice for all within our campus and within the nation as we struggle to address systemic problems within our society and across the country.

The death of George Floyd and long-standing anti-black racism, together with a lack of progress to address the roots of these crimes, have led to frustration and anger generated by police brutality, racial injustice and a culture among some that condones violence. This anger is also based on societal and structural racism that has pervaded the fabric of America. Societal racism includes inequalities in income/wealth distribution, availability of health care and affordable health insurance, and educational opportunities, and is perpetuated not only by individuals and institutions, but by lawmakers passing legislation that precludes or limits opportunity to minority communities and, in particular, to Black Americans. Politics matter. These societal and financial inequities have existed for a very long time, and the lack of progress to address these inequities is at the core of the problem that the country faces today.

GSO has actively made efforts to attract minority faculty and students in general, and specifically African Americans, to join GSO and will continue to do so. In addition, professional societies have fostered and reinforced the need to increase underrepresented minorities in the sciences, and in particular Black Americans. But, clearly we as an institution and a discipline must hold ourselves accountable and do better. It is time to reflect upon and then redouble our efforts to ensure that current and prospective faculty, students and staff of color feel that they belong and are supported.

The GSO faculty voted last year to remove the GRE test requirement in graduate applications, as this has been shown to be a bias against minority students. This year a NOAA proposal was submitted to recruit and provide support to summer students from the University of Maryland Eastern Shore, a Historically Black College and University (HBCU), as part of our CINAR effort, an effort that follows a commitment we made last year when we submitted the Cooperative Institute proposal. We also reached out this year to another HBCU institution, Elizabeth City University in North Carolina, to inquire about their possible interest in joining the East Coast Oceanographic Consortium with the goal of developing a pipeline of underrepresented students at GSO and other ECOC institutions. In an effort to increase the diversity of future oceanographers, GSO’s NSF-REU program (SURFO) is committed to recruiting students from underrepresented groups. Recruiting at HBCUs and Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs), attending conferences focused on scientists from underrepresented groups (SACNAS) and forming a partnership with the Puerto Rico Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation have begun to effect change. Last summer, half of our SURFO student participants were from underrepresented groups. We look forward to next week when a new cohort begins, with almost half the young scientists from underrepresented groups. 

These efforts do not address the inequities and injustices that presently exist with structural racism in America, but are examples of our commitment to recruit and welcome Black students, students of color and other minorities to oceanography with the goal of promoting equity within the science community.

This is the time to address questions of inequity, justice and the rights of all individuals in our society. It is a time for reflection and for discussion, but it is also a time to develop and execute plans to address these issues. Recognizing that the scarcity of Black oceanographers is a result of an unjust K-12 educational system, a key goal of GSO’s outreach efforts is to prioritize access for underrepresented communities to ocean science. GSO will continue to spark partnerships with under-resourced schools throughout Rhode Island and minority serving institutions across the country. We are emboldened to strengthen these efforts.

As part of that effort, GSO will help make meaningful partnerships with minority serving institutions within the East Coast Oceanographic Consortium to develop opportunities for Black and minority students. This summer, we will also share on the GSO website opportunities for discussion on systemic racism offered by the URI’s Office of Community, Equity and Diversity.

There have been many thoughtful statements across the country that address recent disturbing racist acts and the need to confront racial injustice and the culture that fosters it. I would like to share one by Dr. Sudip S.Parikh, CEO of the AAAS, that is an insightful statement about the need to come together in the science community to address the challenges that we are all facing. 

GSO is committed to moving forward in a thoughtful and meaningful way in the days and years to come. Please reach out to me and other GSO leaders if you would like to express concerns or suggestions.

Sincerely,

Bruce H. Corliss
Dean, URI Graduate School of Oceanography
The University of Rochester
Search Rochester.edu
Office of the President
About Sarah Mangelsdorf Messages Contact Us Past Presidents Inauguration 
 BACK TO SARAH C. MANGELSDORF MESSAGES
Flying the University Flag at Half-staff to Honor George Floyd
JUNE 4, 2020
The past months have been challenging for all of us, and the last few weeks especially have laid bare the challenges that we as a society and as a University are facing with respect to the blight of systemic racism and racial injustice. The leadership of this institution is committed to candid conversations, to listening, and to real and effective action to address the concerns of our black students, faculty, staff, and alumni and their allies. And we recognize that this must be a shared commitment. We will be sending a broader message on this essential topic shortly.

Today, we are flying the University of Rochester flag on the Eastman Quadrangle and at the Medical Center at half-staff to commemorate today’s memorial service for George Floyd and as a step to demonstrating our public commitment to anti-racism in every area of this institution. We are all feeling the anguish of injustice today. I stand with you in sorrow and anger, and look forward to joining with you in doing the work that must be done.

Sincerely,

Sarah C. Mangelsdorf
President

FOR: StudentsParents & FamiliesFacultyStaffAlumniLocal Community
Text Only Contact Us Newscenter Calendar Futurity
River Campus (mailing address): 500 Joseph C. Wilson Blvd., Rochester, NY 14627

River Campus (GPS/maps): 252 Elmwood Ave., Rochester, NY

Medical Center: 601 Elmwood Ave., Rochester, NY 14642

Eastman School: 26 Gibbs St., Rochester, NY 14604

Maps & Directions

FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagramLinkedInTumblrFuturityMore social
EMERGENCY COPYRIGHT ACCESSIBILITY NONDISCRIMINATION & TITLE IX© University of Rochester 1996-2020
A MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT BOB CASLEN
May 31, 2020

With heavy hearts, we mourn the horrific killing of George Floyd at the hands of a police officer while three other officers stood by in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Our thoughts go out to Floyd's family and to the families of all those who have been the victims of violent murders fueled by racism and hatred in our country. These events are a stark reminder of the dark divisions that continue to run through our society, the legacy of a dark past that we have not yet fully reconciled. We must acknowledge these divisions and commit to becoming a more just and equitable society.

We stand in solidarity with the African American community, as these events have only compounded the sense of grief, fear, and loss brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. Here as well, we are reminded of the systemic biases that shape our realities. It is our collective responsibility to challenge these institutional inequities and to demand better for ourselves and for future generations.

As Gamecocks, let us be leaders in these efforts. Our Carolinian Creed calls on us to respect the dignity of all persons, to respect the rights and property of others, to discourage bigotry, while striving to learn from differences in people, ideas, and opinions. Violence and hateful rhetoric are not reflective of these values. If we are to begin the process of healing the wounds of racism, hate and bigotry that have brought us to this current tipping point, we must engage one another in thoughtful dialogue about our individual and collective experiences. We must do the work of educating ourselves about the harmful impact of racism and discrimination in all of its manifestations.

Anti-discrimination and anti-harassment training are currently provided to UofSC faculty and staff and required of all students who are new to the Columbia campus. And multiple units are engaged in advancing diversity and inclusion initiatives across our campus. However, given this pivotal moment in which we find ourselves, we will intensify these efforts to ensure that we are equipping our students, faculty and staff with the tools needed to effectively navigate the current tensions in our society. To this end, we are assembling a team to work on the implementation of a new diversity module that will be required of all UofSC freshmen as part of their orientation process beginning in the 2020-2021 academic year. And we will amplify the training available to all students, faculty and staff to ensure that we have the resources needed to foster a campus culture that is reflective of our Creed.

In his 1963 "Letter from a Birmingham Jail,"Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. acknowledged the "interrelatedness of all communities and states,"noting that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny."Let us turn our anger into action, demanding justice where there is injustice, peace where there is violence, and love where there is hate. Let the suffocation of this moment be the impetus for change.

Campus Resources:

To report incidents of bias or hate, submit a Bias and Hate Incident Form

UofSC Counseling & Psychiatry: 803-777-5223 

UofSC Police Department: 803-777-4215

 

Tracey L. Weldon
Interim Chief Diversity Officer, Office of the Provost
Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences

Bob Caslen
President                                                                               
Message from USF President Steven C. Currall
MAY 30, 2020UNIVERSITY NEWS
To Members of the USF Community:

I believe I speak for the entire University of South Florida community when I express our deep sadness over recent events in Minneapolis and around the country. The deaths of two black men, George Floyd in Minneapolis and Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, should prompt us to pause and think about how racism impacts all of our lives.

Although neither of those individuals were affiliated with the University of South Florida, events such as this have a powerful impact on people of every background and in every community.  The impact is magnified in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has so badly shaken us all.

As we work to help each other understand what has happened -- if we can ever truly understand -- I find myself reflecting on the Principles of Community we aspire to at USF;  to treat each other with respect and dignity, refrain from displays of inappropriate anger or intimidating conduct, shun epithets or abusive language, find effective means to disagree, and to persuade and to inform through dialogue.

For our students, faculty and staff, I want to remind them of the resources available through the university’s Office of Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the USF Counseling Center. I urge you to seek out their support.

I believe we must support and care for each other during times like these and not forget that each of us is empowered to stand up to injustice whenever and wherever it occurs.

Thank you.

Steve Currall

Steven C. Currall, Ph.D.
President and Professor
University of South Florida
Note to Community from President Folt
May 31, 2020

Dear Trojan Community,

I write today, hoping you and your families are well and safe, yet knowing that many of you are not; your hearts are aching, and you are searching for answers, actions, and hope. The horrific deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and so many others, together with the demonstrations and unrest sweeping our nation are tearing at us all.  

These violent acts come at a time when our world has already been profoundly disrupted by COVID-19. And many of those hit the hardest are people of color, particularly African Americans – the very same people in communities already burdened by a history of prejudice, poverty, and especially racism.  

Many of you have told me that you are feeling sad, angry, desperate and despairing as you face such grave injustices and the escalation of tensions, and you are trying to find a way forward.

It weighs heavily on all of us. But we are Trojans, united as a university dedicated to the fundamental principles of equality and inclusion, education, and discovery for the good of humanity. We can make a positive difference, as we have for more than 100 years.

I don’t have the answers today, but we will continue to seek them together. I know that we can effect change – in our community, our city, and our nation. Now, more than ever, we need to rely on each other and help each other and our neighbors through these times. We are a community strengthened by the diversity that you bring – we are the students who want to change the world, the faculty dedicated to inspiring young leaders, the staff who keep the university running, the healthcare workers on the front lines, the social workers, the business leaders, the community organizers, the creators, entrepreneurs, teachers, and scholars our nation needs, and so much more. We must be there to support our communities. And, we know we can.

This moment is our call to action. It will be challenging to confront directly issues like racism in our community, but we must. We have started discussions with our student, faculty, staff, and alumni organizations, our civic leaders and our neighbors in the community. We recognize the need for continued conversations around policing, and our chief of the USC Department of Public Safety will be partnering with our campus and broader community to find collective answers to persistent inequities. We will engage you to break down silos that separate us, encourage thoughtful debate, and protect the dignity of every individual in our community. Together, we will stand for justice and embrace a culture of respect for all.

With respect and admiration,

Carol L. Folt
President

Adobe PDF version
His Name is George Floyd
May 30, 2020
We will step forward and show the world what kindness, equity, and inclusion for all people can look like

George Floyd. His name is George Floyd and he should be alive today. Sadly, the list of black people in America subjected to violence is long and getting longer. We grieve for their moms, dads, spouses, sons, daughters, brothers, sisters, grandparents whose loss is unimaginable. We grieve for their friends and neighbors and their community. I condemn brutality in all its forms, but it is most egregious in the hands of those who have taken an oath to protect.

My heart aches for so many as senseless acts of racism and violence continue. The pain and fear are evident in the protests, media, and conversations. The pain and fear are real for so many members of our campus community. We should all be angry, and for many anger has been replaced with exhaustion.

We must do better. Vol is a Verb, and action is important. We will continue the hard work to create a campus where everyone matters and belongs. Where anyone can study, work, learn, teach, jog, and live their daily life without fear. Where education becomes the great equalizer for anyone who wants it. Creating an environment for all Vols to succeed is a responsibility we all share.

Many groups have been working for weeks on making our campus safe for the return of students in the fall—safe from COVID-19. Some ask how is that in 2020 we still face the need to make sure that students, faculty, and staff are safe from racism. Black friends and colleagues have expressed to me that they are tired of having this conversation only to have it followed by another disgusting display of racism. We all need to join together to carry the torch of safety, dignity, respect, and human rights for everyone. We will do both of these things—plan for a fall safe from the coronavirus, and also plan for a future at this university where everyone feels safe and respected, where we have achieved our goals of being a place where everyone matters and belongs.

I will be convening members of our campus—students, faculty, staff, UTPD—in a conversation about how we pull together, support one another, and create the campus we want to have. I will work in partnership with student, faculty, and staff representatives to listen, learn, and take action. At a time when we are separated by distance, it is more important than ever to be united in commitment and support for one another. Take time to check on your friends and colleagues who might be having a difficult time. They are in pain and they need to know we are here for them.

Volunteers step forward in leadership and service. We will step forward and show the world what kindness, equity, and inclusion for all people can look like.

Donde Plowman signature

 

 

Donde Plowman
Chancellor
Dear UTA Community,

I am writing with a shared sense of shock, fear, outrage and sadness as we reflect upon the senseless killing of George Floyd as well as recent incidents of hatred, inequality and ensuing violence. This touches me deeply as it brings back scarred memories of years of racism and bullying I endured during my youth simply because of my ethnicity. I am forever grateful to my adopted country that has allowed me to heal my wounds and pursue my dreams.

Now, more than ever, it is time that we renew our own commitment to and uphold the values set forth in UTA's Principles of Community. The basis for our UTA Community is mutual respect "…members of our community build trust by finding ways to communicate with one another respectfully. With civil discourse, our other principles will follow. Therefore, we will listen, not just to hear, but to try and understand."

Our nation and our society face tremendous challenges in overcoming racism, discrimination and injustice. As scholars and students, teachers and mentors, I believe each of us at UTA has our own role in making a difference, changing all that is broken and accentuating the good I personally have experienced.

As Dr. Martin Luther King stated, "One of the great liabilities of history is that all too many people fail to remain awake through great periods of social change…Today, our very survival depends on our ability to stay awake, to adjust to new ideas, to remain vigilant and to face the challenge of change."

Let us commit ourselves to act with fairness, justice and mutual respect for all.

Sincerely yours,

Teik C. Lim, Ph.D.

President ad interim

#UTAUnited
Turbulent and Difficult Times
June 1, 2020

Dear UT Community, 

This isn't the first letter I'd planned to write as interim President of The University of Texas at Austin. I had a series of welcome messages set to go out today. But they didn't anticipate or acknowledge the events of the past few days and the pain those events have caused for so many — so I had to start over. 

Today's transition comes during a turbulent and difficult time. We are experiencing widespread outrage, anger, sadness and reflection here in Austin, throughout Texas and across our country. The senseless killing of George Floyd and the ensuing protests have gripped the nation. As I watch these events unfold, I feel for those who are in pain and am acutely aware that we must continue our struggle for meaningful and enduring change to overcome acts of racism and violence that corrode our community.

These challenges come as we are already responding to the COVID-19 crisis, which has become so much more than a life-threatening disease. It has paused or disrupted many of the core elements of our daily lives, forcing students to adjust to learning remotely and a different market for internships and jobs; requiring faculty and staff members to work in new, less comfortable ways; threatening many individuals' ability to keep their jobs and earn a living; and impacting our health care and education systems.

As we navigate these difficult times, I am reminded of just how critical The University of Texas at Austin is for our community, state, nation and the entire world.

UT has always been a special place to me, as a student, faculty member and dean of the McCombs School of Business. Now more than ever, I see that the creation and dissemination of knowledge are the most effective antidotes for injustice, inequality and intolerance, and for the advancement and improvement of our society. And that's what we do at UT.

We say, "What starts here changes the world."Those starts and changes don't just happen. They are the result of actions — large and small, as individuals and in teams — by our students, faculty, staff and alumni.

Without question, 2020 has not been the year any of us wanted it to be. We have seen political dysfunction, a global pandemic, economic distress, racial tension — and it is only June 1. In facing these struggles and uncertainty, we need people who can think creatively, develop workable solutions and solve difficult problems. The University of Texas has always had a mandate to be a "university of the first class."Part of that mandate means that this university and the people of this community will take an active role in addressing the critical problems our society is facing.

As Longhorns, when we are tested, we don't shy away. When we are challenged, we don't fade into the background and shrink from our responsibility. We come together and draw upon the diverse range of talent, energy and passion that we have on the Forty Acres, to take on the most important and difficult issues of our time. I look forward to working with you to do that in the days and months ahead.

Sincerely yours,

Jay Hartzell
Interim President

The University of Texas at Dallas - Office of the President
May 31, 2020

Over the last few days, I have heard from concerned students and colleagues about the horrific footage of George Floyd’s killing in Minneapolis.

I have watched the outrage over this tragedy from cities around the country. I have seen the emotional outpouring as people demand change in our society, and I have personally felt great anguish watching a defenseless man die while begging for help from those who are sworn to protect us.

As one who believes in the American ideal, this week has been difficult to comprehend. I know that I am not alone in questioning how our society can move forward when too many people are denied their rights. And so terribly often, those treated the most violently have been black.

Change must occur, and each one of us must play a role in effecting this change.

As president of UT Dallas, I reinforce the values of community, diversity and tolerance we share on our campus. I stress the imperative that we must live these values daily, and I emphasize the resolve we must have to honor this commitment now and into the future.

We, at UT Dallas, recommit to providing a safe, welcoming environment to all people, regardless of race, religion, ethnic origin, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation.

Each one of us — staff, faculty and students — must take these principles into our core if we are to have any hope of effecting change in our society. I ask that we all recommit ourselves so that, as Comets, we live the values we hope become reality for all people across our nation.

Let UT Dallas be a beacon of decency to the rest of the nation.

Sincerely,

Richard C. Benson
President
Eugene McDermott Distinguished University Chair of Leadership


The University of Texas at Dallas
800 W. Campbell Rd, Richardson, Texas 75080-3021

View this in your browser.
Turbulent and Difficult Times
June 1, 2020

Dear UT Community, 

This isn't the first letter I'd planned to write as interim President of The University of Texas at Austin. I had a series of welcome messages set to go out today. But they didn't anticipate or acknowledge the events of the past few days and the pain those events have caused for so many — so I had to start over. 

Today's transition comes during a turbulent and difficult time. We are experiencing widespread outrage, anger, sadness and reflection here in Austin, throughout Texas and across our country. The senseless killing of George Floyd and the ensuing protests have gripped the nation. As I watch these events unfold, I feel for those who are in pain and am acutely aware that we must continue our struggle for meaningful and enduring change to overcome acts of racism and violence that corrode our community.

These challenges come as we are already responding to the COVID-19 crisis, which has become so much more than a life-threatening disease. It has paused or disrupted many of the core elements of our daily lives, forcing students to adjust to learning remotely and a different market for internships and jobs; requiring faculty and staff members to work in new, less comfortable ways; threatening many individuals' ability to keep their jobs and earn a living; and impacting our health care and education systems.

As we navigate these difficult times, I am reminded of just how critical The University of Texas at Austin is for our community, state, nation and the entire world.

UT has always been a special place to me, as a student, faculty member and dean of the McCombs School of Business. Now more than ever, I see that the creation and dissemination of knowledge are the most effective antidotes for injustice, inequality and intolerance, and for the advancement and improvement of our society. And that's what we do at UT.

We say, "What starts here changes the world."Those starts and changes don't just happen. They are the result of actions — large and small, as individuals and in teams — by our students, faculty, staff and alumni.

Without question, 2020 has not been the year any of us wanted it to be. We have seen political dysfunction, a global pandemic, economic distress, racial tension — and it is only June 1. In facing these struggles and uncertainty, we need people who can think creatively, develop workable solutions and solve difficult problems. The University of Texas has always had a mandate to be a "university of the first class."Part of that mandate means that this university and the people of this community will take an active role in addressing the critical problems our society is facing.

As Longhorns, when we are tested, we don't shy away. When we are challenged, we don't fade into the background and shrink from our responsibility. We come together and draw upon the diverse range of talent, energy and passion that we have on the Forty Acres, to take on the most important and difficult issues of our time. I look forward to working with you to do that in the days and months ahead.

Sincerely yours,

Jay Hartzell
Interim President
President Eighmy addresses UTSA on standing together for social justice
President Eighmy addresses UTSA on standing together for social justice
JUNE 2, 2020 — Editor’s note: The following message was sent via email today from President Taylor Eighmy to all students, faculty and staff:

The recent incidents of racism, violence and killing of Black citizens in our country are a stark reminder of how we must rid deeply rooted bigotry and injustices from our society. I am horrified by these senseless killings and—as I said in my statement over the weekend—I find myself feeling deeply frustrated by the lack of progress made by our country since civil rights activists fought for equal rights 56 years ago. The impact of COVID-19 on communities of color is yet another heart-wrenching example of the reality of ongoing national systemic inequities.

We cannot let the deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor go unnoticed or unaddressed. Nor can we ignore the countless other Black people and other people of color who have lost their lives to senseless acts of violence. We must call out and condemn these racist acts, stand together in the fight for justice, speak out and enact change. On behalf of UTSA’s entire leadership team I want to convey to Black students, faculty and staff in the Roadrunner community that we see you and we will continue to fight alongside you. Black Lives Matter.

I believe public research universities have a responsibility to be at the forefront of change for our country. I believe we can serve as models for diversity, equity and inclusion. I believe we are all born with the same potential—but not given the same opportunities. I believe education is a great equalizer and has the power to change lives and create a more just and equitable society. I believe we have an obligation to ensure that Black students and other underrepresented students feel welcome in our inclusive community, experience a powerful educational journey and graduate prepared to change the world.

We have our own work to do to be exemplary in building an environment of inclusive excellence on our campus. Much work has been done on this front in the past year and much more is planned, including upcoming training sessions in August on addressing racial bias, anti-racist efforts and microagressions. We recognize the need for continued conversations around policing, building on Fair and Impartial Policing training implemented by our UTSA PD last year. I hold myself—and UTSA’s entire leadership team—accountable for continuing to move beyond acknowledging the issues and to provide spaces for our community to fight for justice in effective ways.

Tomorrow’s community gathering, hosted by the Multicultural Student Center for Equity and Justice, is an opportunity to support our grieving and angry community. For any of you who may need additional support, please reach out:

For students, UTSA Counseling and Mental Health Services offers same-day or next-day phone and video counseling sessions.
For faculty and staff, counseling services are available through the Employee Assistance Program.
I encourage all of you—the entire Roadrunner community—to take time to process, take care of one another and take action to move our nation forward.


Diversity and Inclusion: Recognizing our Shortcomings, Working to Improve
Over the past few days, we were made aware of social media comments made by a few students that are racist, offensive and harmful to our community. We are appalled and disheartened that any member of the NC State community would choose to make such abhorrent statements.

To say the words and actions in those posts stand in complete opposition to NC State’s values is an understatement.

As a public institution, NC State is bound by privacy laws such that we cannot share information about individual students or the specifics of investigations. We know that many will not be satisfied with this response, but please know these incidents are being addressed.

At this challenging time across our nation, and in our own community, we want to be clear where NC State leadership stands: We stand against and condemn white supremacy, racial injustice and all forms of racism and discrimination. NC State’s Black students, faculty and staff deserve a campus culture where they feel safe, supported, respected and valued. We are committed to doing all we can to protect, promote and advance diversity, equity and inclusion at NC State.

These incidents remind us that we fall far short of where we aim to be. We need to do more and do better. As a Wolfpack, we must remain united and committed – every one of us must actively contribute to help ensure a more diverse and inclusive environment. And, we need to be innovative and try new ideas and approaches to embrace and advance diversity and inclusion.

We may not get it right every time, but we are committed to listening to the voices and lived experiences of those impacted and challenging ourselves to do the work necessary to build a more just and equitable NC State.

As one first step, in the coming academic year, we will require every student, faculty and staff member to complete diversity and inclusion learning modules. This will include every member of Cabinet as well as all of the deans, directors and department heads of the university.

As another step, we are assembling an interdisciplinary team to evaluate NC State’s policies, examine every opportunity to strengthen them against racism and discriminatory behavior, and modify, where allowed by law, to bolster our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion.

When students return in the fall, we commit to working with them to collaboratively review NC State’s Code of Student Conduct and examine opportunities for improving and strengthening the code, where allowed by law. We will also work with students to review, update and improve our university’s statement of values. When complete, we will expect every student at NC State to uphold these values that define the inclusive and supportive culture that we seek for our community.

Additionally, when students, faculty and staff return to campus, we want to move to a place of dialogue and partnership to have difficult but necessary conversations, better gauge what is needed, what is possible, and working together, what we’re going to do about it. We are working on a plan to facilitate those discussions.

These are not the last things we will do, and they are not nearly enough to overcome the many challenges related to actively addressing both the individual acts of racism and the system of racism to foster belonging for all. But they are a few next steps, and we are fully committed to doing more to keep moving forward.

We are a university that is about transforming lives and making the world a better place. This mission is more important today than ever before. We have much work yet to do, work that will require humility, empathy, resilience, hope and engagement. We remain committed to striving today and every day to ensure a university climate that embraces, values and advances a diverse, inclusive and supportive campus culture.

W. Randolph Woodson | Chancellor
Warwick Arden | Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost
Charles Maimone | Vice Chancellor for Finance and Administration
Brad Bohlander |Chief Communications Officer, Associate Vice Chancellor of University Communications
Boo Corrigan | Director of Athletics
Marc I. Hoit | Vice Chancellor for Information Technology
Kevin Howell | Vice Chancellor for External Affairs, Partnerships and Economic Development
Sheri L. Schwab | Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity
Brian Sischo | Vice Chancellor for University Advancement
P.J. Teal | Secretary of the University and Assistant to the Chancellor
Mladen Vouk | Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation
Marie Williams | Associate Vice Chancellor for Human Resources
Lisa Zapata | Interim Vice Chancellor for the Division of Academic and Student Affairs
Message from President Cockett
May 31, 2020

USU President Noelle Cockett

Full Size
Dear USU students, faculty and staff,

The tragic death of George Floyd in Minneapolis was extremely disturbing to watch. The national protests and unrest that have followed prompt me today to publicly reaffirm Utah State University’s and my own personal commitment to inclusion and respect in our Aggie family and in those communities we reach every day.

Clearly there are many troubling, systemic issues confronting us as a nation, and I think these highly volatile moments are opportune times for us to look inside ourselves to see how we can personally help address and alleviate injustice. These are the times for our Aggie Family to join together and reflect about our commitment to USU’s Principles of Community – our institutional Aggie pledge to diversity, human dignity and social responsibility.

Please join with me today as I reassert one of my critical obligations as university president: to cultivate an environment of respectful engagement and respectful discourse at every level of our society. Thank you.

Respectfully,

Noelle E. Cockett

President, Utah State University
27
CONTACT
Tim Vitale
Associate Vice President for Strategic Communications
University Marketing and Communications
 435-797-1356
 tim.vitale@usu.edu

ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
- Aggies Think, Care, Act
TOPICS
    
Post your Comment
We welcome your comments but your submission will NOT be published online. Your comment or question will be forwarded to the appropriate person. Thank you.
Justice, Inclusion and Humanity – May 30
 June 1, 2020
TU students, faculty and staff,

This past week has brought a heightened sense of shock and sadness as we witnessed an unarmed man being deprived of his rights, his dignity and, eventually, his very breath. George Floyd’s death was captured on video and shared with a world already on edge.

Whether it’s on a Minneapolis street in 2020 or in a Tulsa elevator in 1921, the legacy of racism is deep, pervasive and intolerable.

You, the members of our university community, have a choice. You can choose to recognize bias – in yourself and others – and have the personal courage to call it out. You can be vigilant and vocal. You can be an agent for positive change and an advocate for those at risk of being marginalized. Although we are apart, we are not alone. We are stronger together, and we must live our commitment to justice, inclusion and humanity.

Janet K. Levit
Interim President
A Message About Grieving and Searching for Answers Together
My Dearest UVM: I write to you to share what is on my heart. I am bursting with so many emotions, I need to share. As I wipe away tears that keep forming in the corners of my eyes, know I am thinking of all of you, my UVM family. I really appreciate the calls and texts from so many of you who wanted to make sure I was okay. I am also grateful for the calls where you shared your ideas, anger, and grief with me. Like many of you, I watched in horror the video showing the death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police officers. I sobbed for George as if he was my own son or brother lying on the cold, hard concrete. I then wept for Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and Tony McDade, and soon I was crying for the many who have tragically lost their lives over the years because of racism and inequality. 


Unfortunately, the killing of black men or women by police is not new; it is so common that initially many turned to the usual responses: hashtags, T-shirts, flags, and national leaders condemning this horrific act. Still, George Floyd's homicide seems different to me and so many Blacks or African Americans. Was it the cold, hard concrete he died on, the cry for his mama as he took his last breaths, the plea from so many to help him that was ignored, or was this just the final straw? I continue to reflect on why this tragedy has become a global call for change and action. Regardless, this hurts me to the core. I am exhausted. My Black and African American family and friends are exhausted. We are sick and tired of being sick and tired.

As an African American woman who is also the University's Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, I am yearning for justice, looking for accountability, praying for solutions, and wishing we could be together to comfort one another. This crime against humanity, coupled with the impact of COVID-19 on us as a society has forever changed us. Exactly how we let these events change us, is up to us. For me, I am choosing to remain hopeful and draw upon my faith as I push away my tears, so I can see a better future. 

Despite the challenges we face and the fear we may feel, let us redouble our efforts and insist on systemic reform. I know we cannot take on everything, but we can have an impact at UVM, and in the communities where we serve that will branch out to advance critical social and cultural efforts everywhere. We must use our educational platform to share and enhance knowledge, understanding, ideas and solutions that not only address issues of prejudice and discrimination, but also transform lives for generations to come. We must endeavor to inspire professionals who will be more just, equitable, compassionate, and anti-racist.

As we grieve and search for answers together, I ask that you look after one another, in particular for those of us that are Black or African American. I ask that you condemn any behavior that diminishes the humanity of others. This vicious cycle must be broken because if not now when? The world around us seems to be exploding right now, and we all deserve better. I know I could say so much more. This will not be the last time you hear from me. This work of racial equity has been my life's work, and I need help now more than ever. I need partners. Let us collectively work together and steadfastly to confront and address generations of institutionalized racism. 

I am going to start by hosting a Teach-In to help catalyze action. In addition, I intend to create digital "Brave Spaces,"to support and lift up voices from within our University that are committed to this work. I am asking you to join me, plan with me, lead with me, and when I reach out for your help, please answer my call in both your words and your actions.

This is my single story, so please listen to others who have stories they are willing to share. Your voice matters, and no one can take that away from you unless you give it to them.

In Solidarity for Change and Peace,

Wanda
                                 
Wanda Heading-Grant
Vice President
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

PUBLISHED06-03-2020
WANDA HEADING-GRANT, VP DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCL
The University of Vermont Burlington, VT 05405 (802) 656-3131Contact UVM | Accessibility | Privacy/Terms of Use | © 2020
Dear VCU and VCU Health community,

For several days, I have watched crowds of people across the nation and here in Richmond express their anger and frustration over distressing, horrific events against African Americans in our country, including the recent killings of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Breonna Taylor in Louisville, and Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia.

What I see again and again is a very public manifestation of American history and, indeed, America’s present. It is impossible to comprehend centuries of horrifying injustice against minorities in this nation, particularly African Americans. Yet, even in 2020, your skin color still influences your social mobility and vitality even more so than where you were educated, live, or work. In America, it is still far too easy for those with privilege and prejudice to undo the hard-earned successes of others, particularly racial minorities. Individual, institutional, and structural racism is still our tragic reality.

We must do better. We must recognize and respect the dignity and humanity in each of us.

This also calls for us to remain mindful of the communities we share. The protests over the past few days on and near VCU’s Monroe Park Campus have resulted in damage to our shared community, including broken windows and doors, graffiti, damaged vehicles, and debris fires. I am grateful to our many employees who have responded quickly to make repairs and keep everyone on our campus safe to live, learn, and heal.

We will work together to fix what’s broken here. We must fix what has been broken in our communities across this nation for decades. 

Let’s commit to repairing broken systems that serve to create mistrust in government and law enforcement. Let’s resolve to make equitable and fair the distribution of justice. Let’s pledge to reconcile our own struggles between who we are and who we strive to become as individuals and as communities.

As we continue to process what is happening across our nation—especially the very public violence against African Americans and to our shared communities—the one thing that makes sense is that we can no longer afford to stand by idly. None of us is immune. We must stand to change the systems we have created. We must continue to empower and support our faculty, staff, students, alumni, and neighbors to change the world by voting, and by making equity and inclusion accessible everywhere. We must think about our shared humanity in more enlightened ways, because quite frankly, black lives must matter if we are to ever realize the potential of VCU’s shared community and the vast privileges of belonging to a global community.

Sincerely,

Michael Rao, Ph.D.

President

VCU and VCU Health System

21st-Century University, Community, To VCU
Tagged Ahmaud Arbery, Black Lives Matter, Breonna Taylor, George Floyd

Skip to main contentSkip to search
VIRGINIA TECH™HOME
Universal Access Toggle
APPLY
VISIT
GIVE

SHOP

Resources for

VIRGINIA TECH DAILY

MENU

SEARCH
Virginia Tech Daily/ Articles/ 2020/ May/ A statement from President Tim Sands and Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity Menah Pratt-Clarke
Explore
A statement from President Tim Sands and Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity Menah Pratt-Clarke
May 31, 2020

Aerial view of Virginia Tech Drillfield
Dear Hokies,

As we reflect on a tumultuous week in the United States – surpassing 100,000 in the official count of deaths ascribed to COVID-19 and the boiling over of frustration and anger over the tragic and unnecessary deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and George Floyd - we do so from the relative safety of our quiet Blacksburg homes. Jarring images and videos taken by some of our own children on the streets of Chicago and Washington, D.C., bring home the immediacy of the crisis. It saddens us to know that many in our Virginia Tech community have lost loved ones, or have been traumatized by the events of the past weeks.

Dwelling on images, dramatic events, and counts can distract from the common truths that the pandemic and race-driven murders reveal. As great as our ideals of freedom, justice, and equality may be, the reality is persistently and pervasively falling short of what we say we are all about. From the marked disparities in COVID-19 illness and death across racial, ethnic, and economic divides, to the unrelenting burden of racism, past and present, systemic and overt, we cannot continue to expect incremental change and the goodwill of the majority to solve a multigenerational problem.

So what do we do? What actions can we take? While there is a place for protests, we must do more than protest. We have an opportunity as individuals and in our own communities to construct a microcosm of the society in which we wish to live. At Virginia Tech, we have anchored that aspiration in our Principles of Community, but principles only become meaningful if they are acted upon. Our strategic plan, The Virginia Tech Difference – Advancing Beyond Boundaries, takes the principles one step further to actionable priorities and accountability. Let’s work together to ensure that Virginia Tech becomes a model for a just and equitable learning community that prepares the next generation to lead in a new and better world. Over the next few weeks, the Office for Inclusion and Diversity will be working in collaboration with diversity directors, InclusiveVT representatives, diversity committees, advocates, and allies to identify specific action steps to work for sustainable transformation. We hope you will join in those efforts to help make our world a better place for all.

In the spirit of Ut Prosim,

Tim Sands,
President
Menah Pratt-Clarke,
Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity
Those in the Virginia Tech community who need assistance or counseling support may contact:

Cook Counseling Center at 540-231-6557.
Dean of Students Office at 540-231-3787. Referral to a campus cleric may be made through this office.
Employee Assistance Program
Anthem at 855-223-9277
Aetna at 888-238-6232
Kaiser Permanente at 866-517-7042
Optima Health Vantage HMO at 866-846-2682
Hokie Wellness at 540-231-2233 (students) or 540-231-8878 (employees)
InclusiveVT at 540-231-7500
Office of Housing and Residence Life at 540-231-6205
Women’s Center at Virginia Tech at 540-231-7806
CONTACTS:
Tracy Vosburgh

540-231-5396

Mark Owczarski

540-231-5396

Top News
Article Item
Three people on a zoom call
Unfinished Conversations on Race: Education is key in combating racism, article
Article Item
Caption: Webster Santos (center) and the mitochondrial uncoupler team. Six males are smiling as they stand in front of a large window in Hahn Hall.
Virginia Tech drug researcher develops ‘fat burning’ molecule that has implications for treatment of obesity, article
Article Item
2020 President’s Award for Excellence recipients during celebration on June 4
Five employees named as recipients of the 2020 President’s Award for Excellence, article
TAGS
Beyond BoundariesCampus and CommunityInclusion and DiversityOffice of the PresidentStrategic PlanTop News
Map of Virginia with pins showing locations of Virginia Tech campuses. See All Locations link which follows provides details
Virginia Tech logo
GET DIRECTIONS  

SEE ALL LOCATIONS  

CONTACT VIRGINIA TECH  

University Status
Principles of Community
Privacy Statement
Acceptable Use
We Remember
University Libraries
Accessibility
Consumer Information
Stop Abuse
Policies
Equal Opportunity
WVTF
University Bookstore
Jobs at Virginia Tech
Strategic Plan
© 2020 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved.

Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linked In
Pintrest
YouTube
Share to Facebook
, Number of shares695
Share to Twitter
Share to LinkedIn
Share to Email
To the University community,

On Sunday, I offered some brief reflections on social media regarding the death of George Floyd. Those reflections and that medium were inadequate to the topic, which is why I am writing you today.

Let me start with the obvious but nonetheless essential. What happened to George Floyd – his callous and indifferent killing at the hands of a white police officer – was immoral and sickening. As Dean Risa Goluboff wrote recently, it might be tempting also to say it was "shocking,"but that wrongly suggests it was surprising. The recent and senseless deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and so many others before them whose lives were cut short demonstrate otherwise. This sort of violence against black people, including at the hands of those who are supposed to protect all of us, is sadly all too familiar and stretches back not just decades, but centuries, through the Civil Rights Era, Jim Crow, Reconstruction, and slavery.

And let me apologize. When I wrote last weekend, I felt deep despair. Despair for the treatment experienced by so many people of color in this country – not just by police, but by every segment of society, including higher education, including here at UVA. Despair for the current state of our country, which seems to be unraveling before our eyes. Despair for the continued racial inequities across a wide range of contexts – education, criminal justice, health care, housing, jobs – that are still there, as is the systemic racism that underlies those inequities.

But in my own despair, in indulging in it, I failed to express the genuine sorrow I feel for the unequal and unfair burden that I know our black students, faculty, and staff carry with them, not just through this episode, but through every day. George Floyd's death is just another sharp reminder that far too many people of color in this country live a life that is less secure – less safe – than white people, in part because of encounters with police officers who inflicted harm on people they were meant to protect. As a white parent of four kids, I have not had to have the conversation that so many black parents have had with theirs, cautioning them about how to behave around those who are meant to protect all of us. For all of that, I am truly sorry – both for that burden and for failing to acknowledge it.

And I know it's time to act and not simply to despair or rest on faith. Over the weekend, the Division for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at UVA posted a powerful statement from a group of faculty, staff, and community members reflecting on the latest tragedies. In it, they wrote:

We must continue to do the hard work that will help ensure that our future is different, more just, more accepting, and more inclusive. The future we envision is one in which the devaluing of life is no longer accepted, and where bigotry no longer contaminates our systems and institutions, burdening some community members much more than others.

I couldn't agree more, and I am committed to that work. It's in many ways why I came (back) here.

Through the hard work of many students, faculty, and staff – not to mention the persistent advocacy of alumni and community members – UVA is a better place today than it was a decade ago, or the decade before that. But there is more work to do in order for UVA to look more like the state and country in which we live; in order for UVA to be a trusted neighbor to the Charlottesville region; and in order for all students, faculty, and staff to have their voices and their presence equally valued, respected, and included in their everyday lives on Grounds.

I have tried to champion some of that work in my two years as president, and some of it – like increasing student and faculty diversity and being a good neighbor to the Charlottesville region – is in our strategic plan. To complement and push that work forward, today I have asked three colleagues to lead a racial equity task force: Ian Solomon, the Dean of the Batten School of Public Policy; Kevin McDonald, our Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion; and Barbara Brown Wilson, a faculty member in the School of Architecture and the faculty director of The Equity Center. This group will convene with students, faculty, and staff to gather together the growing list of recommendations, suggestions, and demands regarding the subject of racial equity at UVA – and to solicit others – and will send me a concrete and prioritized set of recommendations about the best steps forward, including actions that can be implemented right away.

Eleven days after I returned to UVA to begin as president, I spoke at an event to mark and remember the one-year anniversary of the white supremacist march through Grounds the year before. As I said then and will say again here:

I stand here today as an ally. I am surely an imperfect one, which is to say I am human, like all of you. I will disappoint some of you for doing too much and others for doing too little, some for going too fast and others for not going fast enough. But I know in my heart where I would like to go, and that is the place where our aspirations and our realities finally intersect. I know that many of you, so many of you, would like to get there as well.

I look forward to our continued, imperfect journey together.

Best,

Jim
--
James E. Ryan
President
University of Virginia

MEDIA CONTACT
Brian Coy

btc6r@virginia.edu 434-243-2070


Trending
THIS WEEK
UVA Renames Building for Walter Ridley, First African American to Earn Doctoral Degree
UVA Renames Building for Walter Ridley, First African American to Earn Doctoral Degree MORE
UVA Intends to Start In-Person Classes in August
UVA Intends to Start In-Person Classes in August MORE
Today, Again, I Am Overwhelmed By Grief and Rage …
Today, Again, I Am Overwhelmed By Grief and Rage … MORE
Video
POPULAR ON UVA TODAY
virtual_finals_thumb.jpg
UVA Class of 2020 Virtual Celebration MORE
year_in_review_thumb.jpg
A Year We Will Never Forget: 2019-20 in Review MORE
jim_ryan_speech_thumb.jpg
‘What Will You Carry With You?' Remarks From UVA President Jim Ryan MORE

Latest Stories
VIEW ALL >
A mobile robot, designed to work in hazardous environments, has been modified to kill the virus that causes COVID-19. (Photos by Sanjay Suchak, University Communications)
RESEARCH & DISCOVERY
Mechanical Engineers Develop Coronavirus Decontamination Robot
(Photo by Kipp Teague via Creative Commons)
BUSINESS & GOVERNMENT
Students Who Lost Internships Will Help Rural Businesses in New Pa
Dear Washington University community,

To say that this has been a difficult and painful week would be an extreme understatement. Like you, I've watched with sadness and grief as events have unfolded first in Minneapolis in response to the killing of George Floyd, and then across the country as individuals and communities have taken to the streets to express their anger and frustration at the racial injustice that continues to plague our nation. The ongoing racial violence that we are witnessing against people of color is nothing short of devastating. In recent months, we have seen a rise in anti-Asian and anti-Asian-American violence, largely perpetuated by other Americans. In the last two weeks, we have seen the continuation of violence against Black Americans, both at the hands of officers of the state and private individuals. The events of the past several days reflect only the most recent in a long line of wrongs that have been inflicted upon our communities of color. 

Here in St. Louis, we are all too familiar with the refrain of those who are committed to addressing issues of inequality and racism – "No justice, no peace."Given our commitment to activism and social justice, it's no surprise that the St. Louis community has joined the call to action, and I'm heartened to see the passion that drives our friends and neighbors to make their voices heard. I also am deeply concerned for the well-being of our community and remain committed to working toward a constructive path forward in our region that tackles structural disparities and inequities.

I've spent a lot of time this weekend thinking, and engaging in conversation with other university leaders, about how we can best support our community and advance the cause of racial justice during this time – what we could say or do that would bring comfort to those who are hurting, and show solidarity with those who are taking action. Given the enormity of the issues before us, we know without question that words are not enough, and that no "statement"will begin to resolve the tremendous challenges that are still before us. And yet, there are some things that are important to say.

First, we must acknowledge those who are suffering. To our students, faculty, staff, and any other members of our community who are feeling targeted, unheard, or unsupported, we see you and are here for you. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion means more than just welcoming every person into our community. It means valuing you as individuals with your own identities, actively acknowledging that you matter, and unwaveringly supporting your right to be treated fairly and equally in every aspect of our society. We stand with you and condemn all acts of hate, aggression, or disrespect toward any racial group that may happen anywhere in our community, our region, our country, or the world. We are committed to supporting all members of our community, and we must redouble our efforts to achieve the equity that is foundational to fostering this environment.

In addition, we remain committed to making a difference. After the killing of Michael Brown in Ferguson in 2014, our Washington University community began the long process of looking inward, to see how we could create space for honest dialogue about race, ethnicity, inequality, and social justice, how we could "do better and be better."Since that time, we have taken steps as a community to become more fully engaged on these issues, and to work toward positive change. At our most recent Day of Dialogue and Action this spring, we reaffirmed our commitment to creating "intentional spaces to listen, extend empathy, celebrate, and engage in dialogue"in hopes of reflecting on our own humanity and the humanity of others. The events of this week are a painful reminder of how much work we all still have to do, as a nation and as a society.

Finally, we must take action. This includes not only supporting our community, but also doing what is at the core of our mission: leveraging our activities in support of research, teaching, and patient care to make a difference in helping to forward the cause of racial and social justice in our community, our region, and around the world. Already some of our schools have announced initiatives aimed at improving racial equity, especially focusing on racial violence. We anticipate announcing additional initiatives in the coming weeks.

The separation of our community due to the COVID-19 pandemic has placed an additional strain on our ability to come together to support, listen to, and learn from one another. We are all struggling with the disconnection from our peers, friends, and support networks, especially during this time of additional stress. But this only makes our need to create space for engagement within our community even more urgent, and we are working toward ways to do that in the days ahead. In the short-term, please stay tuned for invitations to opportunities to participate in observances and events that our leaders are currently planning. In the longer-term, we continue to listen and engage with members of our community to work toward substantive, mission-oriented action that we will take institutionally to make our city and our world beacons of opportunity for all. 

In these incredibly difficult times, I know there are no words that will be enough. But it's important for you to know that as a community, we are united in our commitment to justice and racial equity.

Sincerely,

Andrew D. Martin
Chancellor

 
Denouncing racial violence and the ugliness of historic, systemic inequality, President Kirk Schulz and the university's executive leadership pledged greater accountability in confronting racial and social justice failures.

"We must consider our own roles in maintaining systemic racism and accepting racial violence, even when it makes us uncomfortable,"a letter from the university system's executive leadership team reads. "When our actions are informed by the truth of others, we can move forward, together, courageously and realize the aspirations of racial and social justice. Only then can we begin to create an authentic space from which to proceed."

In addition to Schulz, the letter was signed by interim Provost Bryan Slinker, incoming Provost Elizabeth Chilton and all chancellors and vice presidents.

Enter search text
Search

All the UW
Current site
Skip to main content
MyUW
Calendar
Directories
Libraries
UW Medicine
Maps
UW Today
Helpful Links
Computing/IT
Workday/ISC
Husky Card
UW Bothell
UW Tacoma
UW Facebook
UW Twitter
University of WashingtonUniversity of Washington
StudentsParentsFaculty & StaffAlumni  Quick Links
UW LEADERSHIP
 
REGENTS
 
PRESIDENT
 
PROVOST
Office of the President
Home
Office of the President
Archive
Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
May 30, 2020

Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
Ana Mari Cauce

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do they see a strong, resilient, educated woman?
Do they see someone who is their ancestors' wildest dreams?
Do they see a woman who has friends and family they love?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do you only see my skin color?
Do you only see the stereotypes others created for me?
Do you only see your fear?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

My brothers and sisters are villainized for asking questions.
My brothers and sisters are detained for walking on a public street.
My brothers and sisters are killed for existing.

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

I wonder when I will be harassed for existing.
I wonder when the police will be called to my door.
I wonder when I will be the one mourned.

I'm terrified to go outside.

– Laura Cañate, MBA '18

The last few weeks and months have been a time of jarring contrasts. Community members donating masks sewn by hand to protect essential workers, while mask-free revelers flout distancing mandates at pools and beaches. Groups of armed white demonstrators march against stay-at-home orders at state capitols with impunity, while for Black Americans the simple act of walking down the street, jogging or birdwatching can be fraught with danger, and even end in death. Too many are left to wonder, as does UW MBA alumna Laura Cañate, ‘18, "when I will be the one mourned."

Many of us have seen those compelling "before and after"pandemic pictures of cityscapes around the world. The before pictures show buildings shrouded by pollution while the after pictures reveal majestic mountains or vast stretches of squalid, overcrowded houses in the background. It's like a veil has been lifted allowing us to see more clearly what was there all along.

Support and resources

SafeCampus
Bias Incident Reporting Tool

Bothell
Counseling Center
Student Diversity Center

Seattle
Counseling Center
Let's Talk
Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center

Tacoma
Counseling and Psychological Services
Center for Equity and Inclusion

Employees
CareLink

Periods of upheaval and crisis both test and reveal our character, as individuals, communities and nations. Over the last few weeks and months, I've written about the courage and creativity of so many in our community. I've never been prouder of our faculty, students and staff and I am confident that we can and will continue to learn and grow together, building toward a healthier future for all.

But first, we must seize the clarity this moment offers. Painful though it may be, we must face up to the inequities this pandemic has laid bare, and the ugliness that it has revealed. We ARE all in this together, I wear a mask not to protect me, but to protect you. And it is also unquestionably true, that we are not all on equal footing. There are class and race differences not only in who can work from home, and who must venture out, but in who has kept their job and who hasn't. While low-income and communities of color are more apt to work at jobs that require them to be there in person, these same jobs are less likely to come with health care or sick leave. These communities are more apt to be in neighborhoods characterized by overcrowding and with less access to healthy food choices and recreational activities, conditions that no doubt play a role in the fact that people of color are more apt to suffer complications and even death from COVID-19.

These structural inequities, and the institutional racism that they reflect, create and amplify the conditions that led to the appalling ugliness that we've seen in the last few days and weeks — laid bare once again by ubiquity of cellphone cameras. The post-pandemic goal should not be to go back to the way it was. We must do better. As we enter into a period where a new vigilance around hygiene and closeness will become habitual, and where we measure the consequences of our individual actions not just by their effect on our own health, but on how they might affect our family and friends, let's create a "new normal"where attention to issues of equity becomes habitual as well. In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up – or go back.

Laura, I see you, I hear you. I know the smart, strong, sensitive woman that you are. I know your pain. My brother has been murdered next to yours, leaving a hole in my heart and life that can never be filled. And to you and all Black students, faculty and staff, while I can only imagine what it's like to walk in your shoes because my light skin protects me from your terror, I can and will walk with you.

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor — say their names, see their faces, hear their cries. Weep, then act.

 

FacebookTwitterLinkedInEmailShare
CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2020!
On June 13, graduates, their families and friends will gather from around the world to join in celebrating the Class of 2020 in the University of Washington's first ever live, interactive Commencement webcast.

LEARN MORE
President's Blog 
Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
6 days ago

Empowering people with disabilities requires investment and innovation
1 week ago

Washington's universities are anything but discretionary
1 week ago

American flags on the HUB lawn
A chance to reflect and honor those who gave their lives
2 weeks ago

More
Subscribe

Email
Email

RSS
RSS

PRESIDENT'S TWITTER

INVITE THE PRESIDENT
Want President Ana Mari Cauce to attend your event? Submit a request.
University of Washington
Be boundless
Connect with us:
Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest
Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms
© 2020 University of Washington | Seattle, WA
A MESSAGE TO OUR COMMUNITY
Posted on May 31, 2020
The events happening this week in the Twin Cities, across the nation and here in Madison demonstrate the anger that members of our community feel over years of unequal treatment.  This anger demands meaningful action, particularly for those of us who are in positions of privilege.

I recognize that words condemning the tragic and inexcusable death of George Floyd are not enough. UWPD Chief Kristen Roman and her fellow Dane County chiefs are already engaged with the community to reduce trust gaps and improve safety through the Law Enforcement and Leaders of Color Collaboration. I appreciate the work that UWPD has done to ensure that its training and policies protect and serve our communities of color as effectively as they protect and serve other members of our community.

Our work extends beyond law enforcement to every facet of our institution. Although most of us cannot physically be on campus because of the coronavirus, we continue to work on creating a more inclusive and diverse community through the efforts of Diversity, Equity and Educational Achievement:admissions and recruitment:faculty/staff recruitment and retention:Student Affairs:Human Resources, our schools and colleges as well as within individual departments and units.

Each of us – particularly those of us who do not face the daily challenge of living amid inequity and injustice – must contribute to and lead the change that is needed. There are many ways to become more aware and involved. A list of resources is available on the DDEEA website.

Our campus has a long and proud tradition of helping bring about lasting change through peaceful protest. Thousands of people gathered peacefully at the Capitol Saturday afternoon. Unfortunately, a small number chose to engage in destructive acts that attacked already-struggling local businesses. I condemn this violence:it drowns out the message that needs to be heard and is likely to create backlash and more anger on all sides, rather than promote the changes that are needed.

I urge anyone participating in protests to engage in peaceful activism that drives towards systemic change. Use the power and privilege of your education to speak up, reject hate, racism and violence and use respect to build our community. Please take care for your own safety and those around you in this time of COVID-19.

Finally, I encourage those who are anxious or angry about recent national events to connect with the campus resources that are here to support you. These include the Multicultural Student Center, DDEEA, University Health Services and the Employee Assistance Office.

To our Black and Brown students, staff and faculty, I want to say unambiguously: You belong here, you are important to this campus, your lives matter and I am committed to your safety.

This is a time of unprecedented challenge but I remain steadfast in the belief that together, we can move forward toward a more just future.

POST NAVIGATION
Previous post: Planning for a safe return to campus
Dear UWM Faculty, Staff and Students,

Last Friday, I reaffirmed UWM’s commitment to supporting and protecting our diversity, equity and inclusivity. In the short time since then, we’ve seen our cities, region and nation erupt in protest in response to the killing of George Floyd by a Minneapolis Police Department officer. Voice after voice has joined together to condemn decades of institutional violence, injustice and failures in our criminal justice system. And rightly so.

Let me be clear when I express, both for myself and campus leaders, our strong and clear solidarity in support of black lives and with those who are peacefully protesting. The time for successfully transforming our society is now. We support those who are peacefully protesting and the change they will bring.

Your voices are important, and we care deeply about making positive change.

What actions are we taking now to make a difference?

We have been connecting our students, faculty, staff and others through the multicultural success coaches of the Black Student Cultural Center to ensure that safety and a sense of belonging are addressed, particularly as it relates to our African-American males.
We continue to provide resources on how to engage in both individual and facilitated discussions around racism and anti-racist education.
We continue to work with MKE Fellows, a program that focuses on African-American males before and after their entry to UWM. Contact Ray Anthony Fikes for additional information.
We continue to support our ongoing African-American Male Initiative which serves as an important recruitment and retention tool.
What action will we commit to for the near future?

Going forward and working in partnership with governance groups, we will institute mandatory anti-bias, anti-racism training for all members of the UWM family. More details on this will follow.
To set the tone for future discussions around race, we encourage all to visit the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. This resource is an integral part of our ongoing diversity, equity and inclusion framework.
Once again, let me stress our unequivocally strong stance against racism, violence and oppression. Every person who sets foot on one of our campuses has the right to feel safe, respected and valued.

We see you. You matter. We care.

Best regards,

Mark A. Mone
Chancellor
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Stand with me, stand together: Black Lives Matter
DEPARTMENT(S): 
Office of the President
June 1, 2020
The past several months have presented unprecedented challenges for our community, the nation, and the world. Events of the past week have reminded us that while we are all focused on keeping our loved ones safe and healthy, the underlying inequities within our society remain. In fact, we must acknowledge that societal inequalities are actually being exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic.

The protests of the past few days, ignited by the killing of George Floyd, but truly fueled by the continued targeting, demonization, and abuse of black people across our country, highlight legitimate anger, which I share. The uprising we're now seeing points to the significant work we still have to do as a society to confront and eliminate racism. I stand with those who are outraged at the senseless loss of black lives. I offer my support to those who deal daily with racism and other forms of discrimination. I state unequivocally that Black Lives Matter; that racism, discrimination, and bigotry violate our values as a university and that they will not be tolerated in our community. I ask each of you stand with me, with us, and for your friends, your peers, your students, your neighbors as we seek a path forward. 

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. paraphrased Massachusetts-born abolitionist minister Theodore Parker when he said "The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."That arc feels much too long these days. And we must acknowledge that it won't bend on its own. Each of us, especially those of us who are privileged, must consider how we can contribute to bending the arc toward justice, and do our part to make the universe we want to see. 

There is no perfect answer, no perfect action we can take, because these societal problems run deep and have been created and perpetuated over generations. Nonetheless, I truly believe that our community can and must do more to live our values and advance the causes of justice as we look toward the coming year. I pledge to explore that with you further as we start to come back together in the weeks and months ahead. I welcome your ideas for specific steps that WPI can take as we continue to seek to create a truly equitable community where all are treated with respect, and all can thrive. I know we can make a difference together.

This has been and remains a trying and turbulent time. Both the toll of the virus and the upheaval in the world are real. Dealing with the scale of what we are witnessing is especially challenging because we are not physically together. However, we can still lift one another up through our community. Our resources are here to provide support, including the Student Development & Counseling Center, Office of Multicultural Affairs , the Employee Assistance Program, or simply the comfort of colleagues and friends over Zoom. 

Be safe and well. Standing together we will bend the arc of the universe toward justice.

Laurie

WPI in the World
Global Impact Program
GLOBAL PROJECTS PROGRAM
About 
Let's Answer This Call of Distress
June 2, 2020

Dear Members of the UW Community,

As I am sure you are all seeing in Wyoming or wherever you may be, many communities around the nation are in turmoil in reaction to the killing of George Floyd, and to the history of racism, intolerance and bigotry and their terrible outcomes that this event signifies to people across the nation and across the world. Newspapers and television networks are showing daily what is happening in cities like Minneapolis, New York, Chicago, Washington, D.C., and elsewhere, telling a painful narrative of national upheaval that is perhaps unparalleled since the era of the civil rights movement of the 1960s.

The national reaction is widespread, and certainly not limited to cities. The small university community where I have lived the last six years, amid fields of corn and soybeans, experienced significant peaceful protests to show solidarity with brown, black and other communities. But we also experienced violence, including vandalism, looting and gunshots being fired. All three of our nearby towns of Champaign (pop. 88,000), Urbana (pop. 42,000) and Savoy (pop. 8,400) went under curfew Sunday evening for the first time that anyone I know can recall; a limited reopening of our campus was postponed; and numerous activities, even long-planned events that were to be virtual, including a board meeting I was to attend yesterday, were canceled.

This upheaval is a distress call to us all. It is a distress call that we must continue to be vigilant about the continuing racism, bigotry and intolerance that have no place in our community. It is a distress call from our friends, family and colleagues who, even if they are safe at home in this COVID-19 crisis and are not directly experiencing violence against them at this moment, feel a sympathetic nerve has been touched that causes pain very, very deep inside.

Yesterday, I had emails from two different people expressing the very personal distress they are experiencing as a result of recent events. One, from an African-American colleague, asked us to please know that black and brown people who may seem to be relatively removed from this turmoil are actually experiencing very deeply felt trauma in response to not only the recent events, but to what they signify about our society. She soldiered on and attended meetings, but in her words, "we are not OK" and need support. Another, from international Hispanic communities, urged international members of his research team to be very careful going out of their homes, or better yet, to avoid it completely. So, I ask you all to please think very deeply about these events, and especially to reach out to your friends and colleagues, and ask them how they are.  Ask them what you can do to help them.  Ask them how we together can help address the larger issues that these feelings reveal about our society. And commit to it.

Chief Diversity Officer Emily Monago wrote yesterday to our community to draw attention to these events and to reaffirm the values of the University of Wyoming, and I think it is worth repeating some of her words: "During these unprecedented times, let us remember our University of Wyoming values where racism, violence, sexual violence, antisemitism, homophobia, transphobia, sexism, ableism, national origin, and other forms of disparate treatment, injustices and inequities are denounced. Let us stay committed to our resolve to educate our campus community to interrupt, stop and eliminate inequities, injustices and violence from our society at the local, regional, national and global levels. Let us resolve to be a united community regardless of social identities or beliefs."

I want to reaffirm that the University of Wyoming does, and will continue, to uphold these values. Further, diversity and inclusion make our community strong, vital and vibrant. They are absolutely necessary for the excellence we strive for. They require a commitment from all of us, every day, to embrace our shared university values actively, not passively. And they require a commitment that we care for one another in order to create a sense of well-being across our community. I ask you all to do just this at this time in our history, and to commit with me to continue do everything in your power to ensure that our diverse university community thrives in the future. It will make us all, and the university we serve, better for it.

Sincerely,

President-Designate Edward Seidel




May 30, 2020

Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
Ana Mari Cauce

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do they see a strong, resilient, educated woman?
Do they see someone who is their ancestors' wildest dreams?
Do they see a woman who has friends and family they love?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do you only see my skin color?
Do you only see the stereotypes others created for me?
Do you only see your fear?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

My brothers and sisters are villainized for asking questions.
My brothers and sisters are detained for walking on a public street.
My brothers and sisters are killed for existing.

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

I wonder when I will be harassed for existing.
I wonder when the police will be called to my door.
I wonder when I will be the one mourned.

I'm terrified to go outside.

– Laura Cañate, MBA '18

The last few weeks and months have been a time of jarring contrasts. Community members donating masks sewn by hand to protect essential workers, while mask-free revelers flout distancing mandates at pools and beaches. Groups of armed white demonstrators march against stay-at-home orders at state capitols with impunity, while for Black Americans the simple act of walking down the street, jogging or birdwatching can be fraught with danger, and even end in death. Too many are left to wonder, as does UW MBA alumna Laura Cañate, ‘18, "when I will be the one mourned."

Many of us have seen those compelling "before and after" pandemic pictures of cityscapes around the world. The before pictures show buildings shrouded by pollution while the after pictures reveal majestic mountains or vast stretches of squalid, overcrowded houses in the background. It's like a veil has been lifted allowing us to see more clearly what was there all along.

Support and resources

SafeCampus
Bias Incident Reporting Tool

Bothell
Counseling Center
Student Diversity Center

Seattle
Counseling Center
Let's Talk
Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center

Tacoma
Counseling and Psychological Services
Center for Equity and Inclusion

Employees
CareLink

Periods of upheaval and crisis both test and reveal our character, as individuals, communities and nations. Over the last few weeks and months, I've written about the courage and creativity of so many in our community. I've never been prouder of our faculty, students and staff and I am confident that we can and will continue to learn and grow together, building toward a healthier future for all.

But first, we must seize the clarity this moment offers. Painful though it may be, we must face up to the inequities this pandemic has laid bare, and the ugliness that it has revealed. We ARE all in this together, I wear a mask not to protect me, but to protect you. And it is also unquestionably true, that we are not all on equal footing. There are class and race differences not only in who can work from home, and who must venture out, but in who has kept their job and who hasn't. While low-income and communities of color are more apt to work at jobs that require them to be there in person, these same jobs are less likely to come with health care or sick leave. These communities are more apt to be in neighborhoods characterized by overcrowding and with less access to healthy food choices and recreational activities, conditions that no doubt play a role in the fact that people of color are more apt to suffer complications and even death from COVID-19.

These structural inequities, and the institutional racism that they reflect, create and amplify the conditions that led to the appalling ugliness that we've seen in the last few days and weeks — laid bare once again by ubiquity of cellphone cameras. The post-pandemic goal should not be to go back to the way it was. We must do better. As we enter into a period where a new vigilance around hygiene and closeness will become habitual, and where we measure the consequences of our individual actions not just by their effect on our own health, but on how they might affect our family and friends, let's create a "new normal" where attention to issues of equity becomes habitual as well. In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up – or go back.

Laura, I see you, I hear you. I know the smart, strong, sensitive woman that you are. I know your pain. My brother has been murdered next to yours, leaving a hole in my heart and life that can never be filled. And to you and all Black students, faculty and staff, while I can only imagine what it's like to walk in your shoes because my light skin protects me from your terror, I can and will walk with you.

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor — say their names, see their faces, hear their cries. Weep, then act.
Dear Warrior community,

Yet again our nation is rising in anger and sorrow at another senseless death of a black man, this time due to brutality exhibited during an arrest. I wish to share my thoughts with you about this terrible tragedy.

Unfortunately, racism and the disparate impact of violence in the black community remain national issues, but we should remember that each of these incidents involves real people. George Floyd had family and friends who mourn his death, and dreams that will never be fulfilled. My heart aches for this loss, and my sympathies go out to his loved ones. No person in America — regardless of their race, creed or religion — should ever fear for their life simply because of who they are or how they look.

But the fear is real, because far too often it feels like we’re living the same nightmare. How do we deal with it? We demand better of all citizens, particularly those we trust to keep us safe. We also come together — not in violence, but in protest against violence, and in sympathy for those to whom violence has been committed. The compassionate, inclusive and community-minded ethos that defines Wayne State is one of the things I value most about this university, and we need to draw on it now.

Even though we can’t gather physically to mourn, we can still support each other through the means we have. Wayne State University will host a virtual dialogue on Wednesday, June 3, at 5 p.m. We hope you will join us using this Zoom link (Meeting ID: 831 3199 8274. Password: 598720).

Another reason I write today is to remind you that senseless deaths and mishandling of justice like those we've seen in Minneapolis and Atlanta are precisely why we take racial sensitivity training so seriously with the Wayne State University Police Department. Our officers regularly receive training on how to act in all types of situations, with all types of people. We are now taking the lead in this important training with the establishment of the headquarters of National De-escalation Training Center (NDTC) with Wayne State’s police department. The NDTC has filed for non-profit corporation status with the State of Michigan and has already begun de-escalation training of sworn Wayne State University police officers. The training offered by the NDTC has been specifically developed and designed to exceed traditional de-escalation methods, with the goal of fostering positive interactions with citizens and reducing the number of needless and tragic encounters that result in injuries and deaths to both citizens and police officers. 

Here in Detroit, a city that has been ravaged disproportionately by the coronavirus pandemic, we may feel strongly about the injustice of George Floyd’s murder. We may be tempted to believe that there have been far too many senseless deaths, and that it is vain to hope for a better world. But I urge you not to succumb to despair. As a black man, I have felt personally the sting of racism. Instead of feeling defeated by it, I have sought ways to stand up to it: by mentoring minority students, opening people’s eyes to the benefits of diversity, and devoting my career to researching and addressing health inequities around the globe. I do so because it helps others, and it gives me hope that our country will find a way to reckon with the urgent need for change in how we treat and support one another. Let’s model that change, each of us, by treating each other with love and respect.

Sincerely,





Letter from Chancellor Robinson: Racial Justice
WSSU News & Information

Dear Ram Family,

Against the backdrop of a global pandemic that is disproportionately impacting African Americans, we again find ourselves assailed with horrific images that remind us of the reality of racism in America. While the memories of Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor are still fresh, we experience the video of a white police officer kneeling on George Floyd's neck while Mr. Floyd gasps, "I can't breathe" as his life is snuffed out. We are once again reminded of James Baldwin's writing on the failure of human rights and social justice: "We have emptied oceans with homemade spoons and tore down mountains with our hands."

Black America is accustomed to institutional racism in its many facets; however, it can often seem as though our efforts to eradicate it have too little effect. While I don't condone violence as a means to an end, I do support our fellow citizens' right to peacefully protest the inequities and injustice in our society. The fury and grief that people are feeling speak to the institutionalized intolerance, discrimination, marginalization, and bigotry that have existed in this country—and our world—for centuries. 

But what must be our response to darkness? We must always move together toward the light. We must continue to say yes to life—and it is often found in terrible places like racist policies, beliefs, and practices; nevertheless, that is life. 

James Baldwin once again gives us a path forward: 

"For nothing is fixed, forever and forever and forever, it is not fixed; the earth is always shifting, the light is always changing, the sea does not cease to grind down rock. Generations do not cease to be born, and we are responsible to them because we are the only witness they have.

The sea rises, the light fails, lovers cling to each other, and children cling to us. The moment we cease to hold each other, the moment we break faith with one another, the sea engulfs us and the light goes out."

As I consider this national crisis, I am reminded of our university's rich history and its contributions to the advancement of social justice and equity in our society. Consider our motto: "Enter to Learn. Depart to Serve." Our service as members of the Ram Family can—and should—include helping to eradicate the cancer that is racism in America. As long as we keep the light shining on racism, we have a chance of eliminating it. But we have to stay vigilant, because it's always omnipresent. And we have to hold up one another. 

This journey toward a more enlightened America has been—and will continue to be—a rocky road. We must uplift one another, support one another, and advocate for one another in all spaces and places where we have a voice. We must find ways to protest peacefully, vote and run for office, and commit ourselves anew to the work we do at Winston-Salem State. Our students are the next generation of leaders; we need their energy and effort to carry the torch as we work toward peace, justice, and equality.

 Please know my heart is with you, Rams. Be safe. 

 Sincerely,

Elwood L. Robinson, Ph.D.

Tags: Chancellor
More News

Black lives matter.  We stand with those protesting the racist killing of George Floyd. Too many have been killed: Breonna Taylor, Ahmard Arbery, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice, Quanice Hayes, Aiyana Jones, Eric Garner, Stephon Clark, Sandra Bland, Kendra James, Trayvon Martin, and the list goes on. We stand with those protesting long-standing racial injustice. We are acutely aware that machine learning algorithms trained with data that embodies the racial and social injustices of today will perpetuate and amplify these injustices in the future. Already we have witnessed applications of ML in law enforcement, policing, hiring, healthcare, and education that replicate or amplify existing biases. Any technology that unintentionally or by design marginalizes, excludes, or harms Black communities is damaging and dangerous. We recognize the hard work done by fellow ML researchers to shine light on these ill-conceived applications, and call on the ML community at large to take accountability for the societal impacts and consequences that our technology has on society and the world. Women in Machine Learning (WiML) reaffirms our commitment to promoting diversity and increasing the awareness of women, particularly Black women, in machine learning. n this vein, we want to highlight some impactful groups working to support Black students, researchers, and professionals in machine learning and computer science more broadly: 
@black_in_ai @AJLUnited @BlackGirlsCode @Code2040 @Data4BlackLives @blkintechnology @NSBE If you’re looking for specific ways to support the Black Live Matter movement, check https://blacklivesmatters.carrd.co
If you are looking for information about policing in your local community, check
Campaign Zero https://joincampaignzero.org/solutions and Use of Force Project useofforceproject.org #BlackLivesMatter
Dear Wright State family,

It is not enough to say that Wright State University has an unwavering commitment to diversity and inclusion. I want to express our horror at the tragic and disturbing events that unfurled in Minneapolis this week. This is yet another painful reminder of the persistence of racial inequity and injustice in our country, and it only underscores our responsibility to stand together in solidarity against acts like this and to promote equity and inclusion.

As president of Wright State University, I understand the limitations of a message like this, because it comes at a time when many in our community are in pain and angry. At the same time, I hope you know that I stand with you in these challenging times.

I want to remind our campus community of resources that are available to assist you. I encourage anyone who needs it to reach out to these campus resources to provide you with support, compassion, and understanding.

Wright State students can seek confidential support services through Counseling and Wellness Services by calling 937-775-3407. You can call Raider Cares, a 24-hour crisis phone service, at 833-848-1765 (TTY: 314-485-4345). You also have access to a Crisis Text Line that offers 24-hour, seven-day per week text contact with trained crisis counselors, by texting "LISTEN" to 741-741.

Wright State's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides support services for all employees, regardless of benefit eligibility. EAP services are provided at no cost to employees, and include 24/7 telephone access to licensed and experienced counselors, as well as work/life balance services. Call 800-227-6007 or visit the Impact Solutions website at myimpactsolution.com. Use member username: wsufsap.

Diversity is one of our greatest strengths. Our diversity of thought, culture, background, and experiences fuel our community's ability to thrive in uncertain times, consider thought-provoking opinions without incident, and nurture one another when confronted by great challenges.

We will never fail when we face our challenges together. We stand together.

Sue

Dear Members of the Yale Community,

I write to you today deeply upset by the killing of George Floyd while he was in the custody of Minneapolis police officers. Mr. Floyd's death follows a pattern of racial injustice that has become too familiar in our country and that amounts to a national emergency.

At a time when the American community must come together more than ever before, George Floyd's horrifying death shocks our shared conscience and indicts our shared failure. It can and must remind us of other similar killings and of the racism, nativism, and bigotry too pervasive in society today and throughout our country's history.

Over the past week, I have been thinking about two seemingly incongruous things—our sense of community and one of our most basic emotions: fear.

Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, legitimate fear has been very much with us, but not just about the virus itself, and not among us equally. From reports of racism against people of Asian descent to the unacceptable disparities in health outcomes and health care, there was every reason for us to fear for the safety of our neighbors and family members, and of some, sadly, more than of others.

At the same time, I saw nurses, doctors, support staff, and volunteers act with courage, selflessness, and compassion in our home city and around the world. We nurtured a growing sense of community, which gave us the optimism and hope that must ever be a cornerstone of our beloved country. It is in the face of that noble expression of solidarity that George Floyd's death has shaken us and the shared spirit of heroism we have aroused to fight the pandemic.

As I read the news reports of Mr. Floyd's death and its explosive response, I knew that many members of our community feel fear in their daily lives because of the injustices they have experienced and witnessed, and I thought of how fear so reliably leads to anxiety, depression, health deterioration, and anger, and also to aggression and even violence. Some of the protests have turned destructive, undermining the plea for justice all Americans must share. Fear is powerful, damaging, and unpredictable in its effects.

I believe that all of us at Yale must do what we can to replace fear with hope—and not with anything less than action. Here I have been thinking much of the life of the extraordinary Pauli Murray, a lawyer, civil rights leader, and Yale Law School graduate. She experienced firsthand the cruelties of racial segregation and suffered injustices. She knew fear. However, she wrote in her memoir, "Seeing the relationship between my personal cause and the universal cause of freedom released me from a sense of isolation…I would be no less afraid to challenge the system of racial segregation, but the heightened significance of my cause would impel me to act in spite of my fears."

I have implored myself—and earnestly invite you to do the same— to make direct use of Pauli Murray's wisdom. Her words remind us of all that we have been able to accomplish together because of our shared commitment to the common good. Since mid-March, we have saved lives in this pandemic. We have isolated ourselves, changed the way we live, and sacrificed to safeguard the well-being of the most vulnerable among us and prevent our hospitals from becoming overwhelmed. It is vital to remember that we have been united in easing suffering, improving lives, and providing hope during a turbulent and challenging period of our history. If we can do this, we are capable, all of us, of creating the America we must insist belongs to us all.

In 1945, Pauli Murray wrote, "As an American I inherit the magnificent tradition of an endless march toward freedom and toward the dignity of all mankind." We have so much more to do to foster and sustain an equitable society. Instead of feeling the isolating effects of fear when our sense of community is shaken, we must remember that we are connected in more ways than we are divided. And that where we are divided, we must work, now, in the interest of unity and justice. This is a matter of the highest importance.

So, let us act as Pauli Murray would have us act toward those we know well but also those to whom we are connected simply by a common and powerful dream. I am grateful that you and I share Yale and its mission to improve the world today and for future generations. In looking forward to the work we have ahead of us, I wish you peace and strength.

With best wishes for your health and safety,

Peter Salovey
President
Chris Argyris Professor of Psychology
We are of our community – and our community is in pain. We cannot escape the problems of society – for we carry the successes and challenges of our community with us wherever we go. Left unchecked, racism, sexism, homophobia, and fear of the other can enter any organization or community – and destroy the foundations upon which we must build our future.

The past few harrowing days have laid bare how a lack of trust, respect, and leadership can tear at our social fabric. In these times, we must pull together and provide leadership in our own communities. Leadership is not about having all of the answers. It starts with unwavering principles that can steady us when the world seems unbalanced.

With all that is happening around us, let us recommit AAAS to these relevant principles:

    Diversity, equity, and inclusion along every axis are critical for our organization, the scientific enterprise, and our community to progress
    Ensuring lasting diversity, equity, and inclusion requires going beyond intervention to systemic change
    Systemic change begins with everyone feeling safe and respected
    Hatred, discrimination, and injustice have no place at AAAS, in science, or in our community

Let us recommit ourselves to these principles and rededicate ourselves to the mission of advancing science and serving society. Society needs us more than ever.

The coming weeks and months will bring further unprecedented challenges to us and our communities. What we do in this time will define us for a generation. In the face of national uncertainty, I am confident in this team’s ability to be a force for science, a force for good, and a support for one another. Our programs, publications, and advocacy are critical to a better and more just world. Your support makes each of these possible.

Nevertheless, a torrent of emotion has been unleashed in the last few days. It is understandable to feel anger, sadness, and helplessness. Many of us have been deeply impacted by these events. It is my hope that we come together as colleagues and friends to support one another. Science, scientists, and science advocates are going to be critical to ensuring we successfully navigate this troubled time together

"In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up — or go back."
ACM Stands with Those who promote inclusivity
In the United States, and throughout many regions around the world, current events have brought attention to the urgent need for equality and respect for all individuals. ACM reaffirms its commitment to fostering diversity and inclusion within the global computer science community.

As an international organization of nearly 100,000 professionals, ACM respects the essential worth of all people and firmly believes that diversity strengthens the scientific enterprise and society as a whole. ACM’s Code of Professional Ethics embodies these principles, and our Diversity and Inclusion Council works to translate them into effective action.

ACM is committed to creating an environment that welcomes new ideas and perspectives, and where hostility or other harmful behaviors are not tolerated. As an organization, we stand with those who promote inclusivity.


The AISES family shares in the pain and grief of the black community resulting from the murder of George Floyd and the long history of oppression and violence against their communities. As indigenous people, at AISES, we are guided by the traditional knowledge of our ancestors who have lived and died upon these lands since time immemorial. Among this knowledge is the deep understanding that "we are all related." It is this respect for relationships and community that guides AISES' programs and partnerships. For example, for several years now, AISES has been a part of the 50k Coalition alongside the National Society of Black Engineers, the Society of Women Engineers, and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers. Through partnerships like this, we have come to understand that our combined communities are stronger together. We have come to recognize that we are all working toward the same goals – diversity, equity, and inclusion for all communities and have learned that we can support one another through the adversity and challenges our communities face day in and day out. As such, today and every day, we stand with our black brothers and sisters in solidarity against the continued violence and systemic oppression of their communities. #blacklivesmatter

What do we tell our children, our students?
- Expressions from Alabama State University President, Dr. Quinton T. Ross Jr., on recent national events surrounding the death of George Floyd.
- By Dr. Quinton T. Ross Jr., President of Alabama State University.

"For the past few days, I, like many others have been viewing through the lens of the media, the reaction of our country to the deplorable and senseless death of yet another defenseless black person at the hands of a white police officer, a tragic mockery to the truth that Black Lives Matter. Similar to other Americans, I am overcome with a range of emotions.

As the father of two sons and as a black man myself, I can assure you that I am furious and deeply saddened by the death of George Floyd, as I am by every senseless killing of black males and females in America. It could have been either of my sons, my brothers, my nephews or nieces, my friends or even one of my students who lay on the ground, pleading for mercy on that horrific day. 

Looking into the eyes of my 11-year-old son and trying to help him comprehend what happened and what is happening in our nation, I am cognizant of the fact that I am old enough only to have read about the many civil rights protests and nonviolent demonstrations that have afforded me the opportunities that I have enjoyed during my lifetime.  While I was not an eyewitness to the protests, I do try to paint a picture for my son, drawing from my exposure to many civil rights icons and their recounting of historic events of the past, such as the Montgomery Bus Boycott, the march from Selma to Montgomery, the brutality of law enforcement officers such as Bull Connor and the story of Ruby Bridges. I am emotionally distraught about the stark parallel of our nation's present state of affairs and our nation's historical past.

I have been giving thought to this national crisis, especially as it relates to Alabama State University's rich history and her overwhelming contributions to the advancement of civil rights in the nation.  I am one of thousands of students who have matriculated and emerged from ASU with purpose and a true understanding of social justice and responsibility. At ASU, we learned the importance and the power of the vote.  The call to public service and advocacy was ingrained in our DNA by O' Mother Dear.

While I attempt to give some sensible explanation to the most recent senseless acts of brutality, I have reflected on my first real encounter with the reality of racist police violence against blacks in America.  It was the spring of 1991, just prior to my senior year in college, and I had just been elected President of the Student Government Association. This was the time that our nation witnessed Rodney King being brutally beaten by Los Angeles law enforcement officers after he led them on a high-speed chase.  I remember asking myself, "Is this what would happen to me as a black man if I found myself in a similar situation with authorities?" I vividly recall how the nation erupted into protests because of Rodney King's mistreatment, just like the protests that have erupted nationally because of the senseless death of George Floyd and others. Each incident is similar to the protests that happened across this nation in the 1960s due to social injustice.  As a young student, I was confused and enraged by what I witnessed. I remember the rumbling of unrest within our student body regarding Rodney King. We were all ready to act on our anger and frustration by taking to the streets of Montgomery to let our voices be heard.  Word of our intentions reached our President, the late Dr. C. C. Baker, who later became one of my mentors. My SGA leadership team and I were summoned to Dr. Baker's office, and it was there that I learned what social protesting was really all about. It is not about the destruction of property, looting or acting disorderly; it is about banding together peacefully with a common goal, with a purpose and a plan for change.  During the meeting, we discussed our desire to be heard and our passion for change, and emerged with a plan for a peaceful protest on the campus that historically has been a beacon for change—our home, our haven—Alabama State University.  This focusing event allowed me to lead my first press conference. It would be the first time I had ever spoken in front of news cameras. Every news outlet in the city was on campus that day as students gathered with community stakeholders in great numbers. I led the protest with a speech. Students and local elected officials were also able to have their voices heard as the media captured our impassioned sentiments and broadcast the event.  I share this personal experience not only to highlight the importance of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) in providing a platform for change, but also to emphasize the need to protest peacefully and with a purpose.

I offer that advice while understanding and even relating to the rage that has been unleashed across the nation by the infection of racism that is more potent than ever in America. Our nation has a new and improved infection of racism when George Floyd can plead for mercy while dying publicly under the force of a racist man's knee just as his forefathers died publicly hanging from a noose. There is a new and improved infection of racism when a young man by the name of Michael Brown can hold his hands up in surrender and still be shot to death in broad daylight in Ferguson, Missouri. There is a new and improved infection of racism when a man by the name of Eric Garner in New York City can tell authorities "I can't breathe"as he is choked to death.  The infection of racism is new and improved when a young man by the name of Trayvon Martin is gunned down in cold blood while walking from the store to his home. Racism is new and improved when Ahmaud Arbery can be gunned down while jogging not far from his home. There is a new and improved infection of racism when Breonna Taylor can be shot and killed by police officers as she lay sleeping in her apartment in Louisville, Kentucky. Let us not forget the infection of racism that related to the death of Sandra Bland, who was found hanged in a jail cell in Walker County, Texas, after being arrested for a minor traffic stop. Here in Montgomery, there is a new and improved infection of racism when a man by the name of Greg Gunn, who attended ASU, is chased and killed by a police officer just a few steps from his mother's front door. Their tragic deaths made headlines, but across this nation and even in this city, we could easily add more names to the rolls of those whose lives have been so tragically cut short with no cell phone cameras to capture their last, painful breaths.

With this in mind, we struggle with the question, "What should we tell our students?"The answer that I offer you is the same that I give to my sons. I ask that you find ways to protest peacefully, including exercising your personal responsibility to register to vote and then go vote, and committing yourself to continuing your education so that you are prepared to emerge as this nation's next generation of leaders. I ask that you resist the temptation to channel your anger into destruction; instead, channel your energy into the very thing that disturbs and disrupts those who would oppress you: Education.

Our nonviolent stand proved successful in the past, and I believe it could be the catalyst for real and impactful change today. Let peace be at the core of all of our actions.

While it seems as though remaining calm in the midst of a racist storm is a signal to be disrespected, disregarded and endangered, remember the lives that were lost to get us to this day. Remember the examples of those who were brutally beaten and rose up from that brutality to walk the halls of congress, to become mayors, governors, state legislators and community leaders. They are the ones upon whose shoulders we stand. Their sacrifices have afforded us the opportunity to stand and take up the mantle of peace, justice and equality for all. 

Stay in the fight against injustice my children and my students, with peace, purpose and a plan that saves us from self-destruction and allows us all to "breathe"freely."

News media contact: Kenneth Mullinax, 334-229-4104.



Our students, like Rondriquez White, who is also the co-founder of the Nashville Chapter of Black Lives Matter, are and always have been on the front lines of change in our country's history. As an organizer of this weekend's protest when asked about the extreme heat index by the media White says, "The temperature we face, the oppression that we face is even hotter."
As the U.S grapples with the murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbury and many other black men and women, it is during this painful time that we explicitly condemn racism and systematic oppression, and call for genuine change. We stand with the Black community and against anti-Blackness.
AnitaB.org was founded to increase the representation of women in in technology and ensure that women’s voices play a key role in shaping the future of the industry-and the extension of the world.
In the past, living mission-while created with the most progressive intentions- has sometimes fallen short of supporting every woman. Like many organizations’ histories, ours holds moments of erasure when it comes to uplifting Black people and women, the people who need it the most. We are working hard to live our values, both within our organization and as we work with our Partners to do the same.
We cannot allow this moment to pass us by and call our Partners to take action, including:
•        Increase your diversity. Hire Black people.
•        Contribute to the organizations that support the promotion of Black and other marginalized people.
•        Partner with public officials to change laws and policing to protect everyone.
•        Support protestors throughout the country by donating to bail funds.
The time is now to change our culture, create a more equal society and move forward together.
#BlackLivesMatter

So, here we are in 2020, painfully and acutely realizing that the long-held ideals of our nation, as embodied in the Constitution's aspirations of the right to equal justice, the right to pursue happiness and the right to individual liberty, are, in fact, unfairly and inequitably distributed across our society. This, of course, has been a reality since the founding of our Republic and, although we have made progress through our struggles and our changes, it is nonetheless jolting to see these inequalities manifested through the unfair treatment of individuals based on their race and ethnicity by the very government designed to protect and defend their rights as citizens.

The blatant abuse of power by the police as exhibited in the case of George Floyd, and many others, is in many ways akin to the actual abuses of power perpetrated against Americans in ways that led to the revolution against Great Britain. The very founding of our nation was a result of these mistreatments by the ruling government itself at the time.

Individuals have rights, the government must protect those rights, and the government must not be involved in injuring or diminishing those rights, particularly in its exertion of power towards its people.

The Constitution of the United States is perhaps the most important aspirational document ever written and codified by humans to govern themselves, particularly in the sense that it leaves very little to doubt about its goals of equality, justice, liberty, and the ability to pursue happiness by the individual as its purpose. That document, the Constitution, is in and of itself our collective aspirational goal, the society we wish we could be as a people. Can we find ways in all that we do, including policing, education, and social welfare, to meet the ideals of that Constitution and all that it stands for? The answer is no, unless we are willing to face our failings, call out our injustices, and drive towards the changes needed to achieve the common goals America was built to achieve.

In August 1963, on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King in his globally noted and socially profound "I Have A Dream"speech, outlined exactly this concept of aspiration. Dr. King used the "dream"concept to describe a world in the future in which the actual articulation of the aspirations of the Constitution could be realized in every person's life regardless of their race, ethnicity, religion, or social class. He did this with a level of eloquent intensity that set the stage for the pursuit of further attainment of the American constitutional aspirations. He knew the aspirations; he knew the intent of the words and the concepts; he knew the philosophies on which they were based and that they were substantial and powerful in terms of what is a human being; he knew the struggles that preceded in the evolution of the United States; and he knew the struggle that he was a part of as a leader of the Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s, which ultimately cost him his own life.

The key point here by Dr. King, and I think the key point of the Constitution itself, goes well beyond any interpretation of the Constitution by a particular sitting Supreme Court, for as we know many of those interpretations from the past would be found today to be appalling, but rather towards the idea of fighting for and driving toward and working toward our national aspirational goals, particularly of equality and justice.

We, the university community broadly and Arizona State University specifically, are, in fact, an aspirational institution and we have, in fact, been woefully inadequate, up to this point, in our own efforts to facilitate the means by which higher aspirational attainment might be achieved for these central goals to our society. This is particularly true as we have grown and diversified as a society.

At ASU, we have taken to heart the notion of designing and building the "New American University,"a university built on the notion of maximum social inclusion, maximum academic excellence, and maximum impact on serving our communities all from the same institution. In the last 15–20 years, Arizona State University students have become representative of the totality of the diversity of our society, and we have altered the functional way in which we operate to help bring about this "New America,"this aspirational attainment of our core values, as stated through the U.S. Constitution. But, even with that, we have been too slow in the concept of redesigning, reconceptualizing, restaffing, re-empowering and enabling the institutions that we, the university more broadly and ASU more specifically, have helped to design, create, staff, and assess. Our institutions are not living up to our hopes. They are not yet as capable as they need to be to reach our collective dream.

Why is it that we still have systems and institutions that can carry out and often justify injustices in the name of the people? Why is it that we have inadequate learning and empowerment opportunities in so many areas of our society? Why do we have police officers so inadequately trained that groups of them can stand by while a person is murdered in a public display of abuse of authority? Why do we not have enough new tools for enhancing the outcomes of our criminal justice system or enough new ideas and solutions about how to address drug addiction and other powerfully negative forces at work in our society? Why have universities become increasingly elitist organizations drawing only from the cream of the cream of our society or from families producing "learning elites"from significant amounts of personal wealth and personal networks? These and many other questions are questions that we can and should not only address but attack and begin to resolve.

But, in spite of all of our efforts, we still have insufficient ideas for social transformation where it might make the most positive difference in terms of accelerating the rate of change and accelerating the rate of enhanced social justice and accelerating the rate of enhanced pursuit of happiness across as much of our society as is possible. We need to do more.

To do more, I am asking our deans and faculty and students of all of our ASU colleges to outline new initiatives, new programs, and new designs that we can initiate with our own resources and then pursue additional partners in creating and deploying new solutions. Our Watts College of Public Service and Community Solutions, our Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law, our School of Social Transformation, our Mary Lou Fulton Teachers College, and other critical ASU academic communities can outline new efforts, new concepts, and new strategies to devise new models for protecting and defending the rights of individuals; new methods, new concepts, and new tools for policing; models for justice and the law that are, in fact, implementable throughout the process and not only after injustices have occurred.

All of our schools and all of our programs, as well as all of our faculty, can engage in this process of new ideas, new designs, and new concepts, while we, as Arizona State University, continue to strive towards our aspirational goal of being the highest quality, highest performing, most egalitarian university operating across the breadth of our society that we possibly can be.

To do this, I am asking that the deans engage in a college-by-college process and that the student leaders also engage in a process for specific new initiatives that we can undertake. I would like to be able to review these aspirational attainment ideas before the opening of the fall semester so that we might get some new energy focused here as faculty and students reassemble.

If, in the interim, there are immediate ideas or immediate actions, get those to me straightaway.

My hope is that we can take a good hard look at our own intellectual underpinnings here and ask ourselves, "are there things that we can do differently or designs that we can produce or teaching and learning that we can alter that can help produce new and better aspirational attainment for the goals of our country?"

I look forward to our moving forward as soon as possible with new efforts. 


We are the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE). We take each of those words and our collective identity very seriously.
We're American. We recall that this nation was born in rebellion to oppressive tyranny and that no oppressor has ever gladly surrendered his position. We're American. We know that nativism has never been our strength; rather we have embraced the world and taken our strength from all the peoples of the world, including those who were already here.
We are a Society. We are a community of shared interests and purposes. Prominent among our shared interests is diversity, equity, and inclusion. We have spoken out forcefully in this regard time and time again including our February 1, 2017 statement on the US President's executive orders on immigration.
We are Engineers. We understand that diversity, equity, and inclusion are essential to the quality of what engineers produce. It's not a "nice to have"—it is essential. Circumstances or actions that impede diversity, equity, and inclusion are inimical to good engineering practice.
We are Educators. Whether we stand in research labs, classrooms, factory floors, or boardrooms, we seek to enlighten others to what we know and what we are learning. We seek to facilitate opportunities for all to learn to the best of their abilities, and to hold ourselves accountable for the quality of our facilitation. We recognize historical and systemic inequities in opportunities and preparation to learn and seek to ensure equitable access and success in education.
The murder of Mr. George Floyd, like that of so many others before him, was a heinous act. But it was not a singular act, or an isolated act. It was part of a pervasive pattern and practice of learned, ingrained, and automatic behaviors that have and will require persistent, consistent, and resistant action to limit and eventually reverse.
We recognize our limitations, but believe that by working together as ASEE members and in collaboration with others, we can contribute to advancing and sustaining the deep and wide change that will be necessary for this nation to begin to achieve the aspirational words that are the preamble to the US Constitution – . . . forming a more perfect Union, establishing Justice, insuring domestic Tranquility, . . . promoting the general Welfare, and securing the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity . . .
Our nation is hurting. For the last few months, we have hurt physically, financially and otherwise from the coronavirus. Now, recent events of racial injustice are hurting us in many ways that words often find inadequate to fully express.

While we acknowledge the painful reality that prejudice and bigotry exist, we stand resolute that they have no place in the Auburn Family. As an institution that values and embraces each individual, we oppose hate and exclusion and acts that promote them.

It was on my heart to reaffirm Auburn’s values. I’m confident that we, together, will work toward change and healing.

To the families, friends and loved ones of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery, we extend our deepest sympathy. Our hearts ache for both the nation we have worked to make more just and equitable and for the city we love and call home. Through our grief for the countless known and unknown victims of systematic racism, we continue to pray that we can use this moment to shine light in our communities. This is not the moment to fall into despair. The world needs our leadership and love. As our forefathers and mothers from the Atlanta Student Movement, the larger Civil Rights Movement, and every struggle for justice in America have shown us, we accomplish great things when we act in solidarity with those who fight for freedom and push America to live up to its promise.

For well over a century, the institutions of the Atlanta University Center have worked to use the light of knowledge to guide the nation out of dark times. The very existence of Clark Atlanta University, Morehouse College, Morehouse School of Medicine, and Spelman College is a form of protest in itself—a recognition that education can illuminate the path to justice and equality and a demand that it be available to the sons and daughters of the diaspora. While we are proud of the leaders in every field our institutions have sent forth into the workforce, we are even prouder of their preparation to carry forward the hard work of making the world better through ideas, innovation, creativity, courage, and determination.

What can we do, individually and as the AUC community? What is the way forward? What are the difficult conversations we need to have and with whom? What are the action plans we need to craft? These are the challenges in the days and weeks ahead. Together, we must continue to thoughtfully engage in the hard work of creating positive change in our communities and across our nation.




I write when I am bothered...I am bothered tonight.
All day, I have watched social media and news with horror as protests borne out of an act of racial violence – the murder of George Floyd - turned to violent demonstrations and even riots. As an African American I fully understand the hurt, anger and utter frustration that drives us to this point. The psychological trauma inflicted on African Americans every time a black life is cut short unnecessarily by a uniformed officer, cannot be understated, nor can it be dismissed. However, we must govern ourselves strategically and with discipline. We are strong, resilient, committed and brilliant. We must organize, plan and use our collective voices to bring about the change we seek.

I am asking you to do three (3) things:

1) Control Your Coins - Consistent, sustained economic pressure. We must stop spending and investing our money into businesses that do not respect and appreciate our buying power. Do not shop in stores where you are followed, ignored or treated rudely. We must never reward ignorance or disrespect. Today we have seen individuals post cruel and racist statements, jokes and pictures. Take note of where those people work. Report them and refuse to support the businesses that employ them.

2) VOTE. NEVER allow an election to occur without casting your VOTE. Educate yourself on the issues that impact our communities and vote out prosecutors and other elected officials who turn a deaf ear on the needs of our people. Attend candidate forums, write letters, attend meetings, volunteer and yes, donate to the campaigns of the candidates you believe in. History has demonstrated that we are a powerful voting block and when we show up!

For many Americans, and for Black Americans in particular, the very soul of the nation seems in peril at the moment. 
The horrific murder of George Floyd, captured in all its public, brutal clarity, serves as a stark reminder of the divergences between the highest ideals of our society as posited by our founders and the stark, 400-year reality for black, brown and native Americans.  It is also a reminder of the fragility of the very lives of black people, including the life of Breonna Taylor, when intertwined with the nation’s criminal justice system. It begs the question: Why is this still happening?
At the same time, we reel from the disproportionate impacts on our community of COVID-19. The higher percentage of death and sickness is overwhelming. The accompanying, record-setting unemployment and economic hardship serve as a painful reminder of just some of the profound and enduring inequities in our society.

There is a great deal of pain. The protests around the country are manifestations of a cumulative national despair.  There is a well-earned weariness here – our community and those who support it have a right to be tired, frustrated and angry.  At the same time, the protests reflect a determination to make positive change, no matter the fatigue.   As our esteemed founder, Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune, teaches us, we must be resilient. We must be energetic in not accepting the status quo, and in not letting it deprive us of our future.  We can define society up.      
And with those protests, we condemn the violence and looting of the few and celebrate the voice of the many. We hold ourselves to a higher standard. We are also watchful of the reaction of authorities and our leaders—who themselves should be held to the same high standard.
We are reminded that great institutions like B-CU, born of trauma, poverty and racism, are very much on the front lines of enabling America to fulfill its highest aims and aspirations. B-CU and other HBCUs serve as both the mirror to and the conscience of the American ideal. The role our institutions assume in serving and healing America—and the role our amazing students will assume as future leaders—has never been more critical or evident.   
At B-CU, we serve students by intentionally exposing them to ideas and experiences that will enable them to discern between what is right and what is easy, and to recognize that with the education they receive, comes a responsibility to a greater good.  B-CU fulfills its mission, in part, by bridging the gap between talent and ability, and access and opportunity.  We serve this nation through harnessing the inextricable linkages – the shared existence – that many of us hold with the communities in which our institutions were born.  For B-CU, that happens to be the former city dump, Hell’s Hole, which was the only land available to our founder. Through determination, faith and a legacy of love she transformed it into our beautiful, enduring university campus.      
In the midst of our collective national trauma, B-CU will continue to live the ideals of its founder.  We will unconditionally love and support our students and one another.  We will do what we have always done – we will rise, support one another and we will affirm the very best of who we are and have always been as a community.   



The unrest following the abhorrent viral video of George Floyd’s murder has led many of us to have real conversations with our children and families about the ugly reality of racism in America; leaving a sense of hopelessness.

How can we tell our girls (and boys) they have the capability to become the next tech CEO and in the same breath detail precautions to take when encountering individuals who are supposed to protect and serve? How can we encourage our girls to show up in society as their authentic selves when we bear witness to countless incidents that illustrate the disregard for Black humanity? How do we tell our girls there are no limits on their dreams when even in the year 2020 racial barriers continue to pervade our daily lives? There is no specific code for how to handle these traumatic incidents when they arise, but we know it starts with being intentional about keeping our children informed, empowered, and hopeful.

At Black Girls CODE, the core of our mission is to empower young women of color between the ages of 7–17 to embrace the current tech marketplace as builders and creators by introducing them to skills in computer programming and technology. Yet the foundation of our work is about so much more than just teaching our girls to write a line of code. The focus of our work is centered on teaching our girls to embrace self-actualization, self-confidence, and self efficacy; we uplift racial justice and equity so that our girls can not only survive but thrive within spaces in the fullness of their unique selves.

We must not let these incidents diminish their sense of pride, but rather use them as fuel to face these obstacles head-on, go further, reach higher and rise. Staying true to the vision of creating brighter futures for our girls, our organization will be here to support our community through this difficult time and for every step on the journey towards healing. We want to express our gratitude to those who have rallied around BGC and have made contributions to ensure we can continue to do meaningful work, especially amid uncertain times.

At times like these we are even more assured that our work is timely and relevant. We will push on together to create space for a better world for our girls, their families, and the beloved community.
Blackcomputerher:
To our community: we are with you, and we are here for you. We are also working on new programming to support you and keep us connected. We'll share more soon, but in the meantime, stay safe and take care of yourselves. 

The Bluefield State College community is united in mourning the tragic and senseless death of George Floyd. Each of us should be deeply saddened by the hate that was expressed by this terrible act. The late Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. said, "We must learn to live together as brothers or we will perish together as fools." Racial discrimination cannot be tolerated in America. Bluefield State is a Historically Black College that serves a population that is diverse, but we are a community where each member must passionately embrace the belief that people of color cannot continue to suffer because of racism. We MUST resolve to love our brother, because hatred can destroy us all. The journey forward can only be made with heartfelt, lifelong, commitment to love, to forgive and to ask for forgiveness, and to listen and learn. We lift up our collective prayers for Mr. Floyd and his family, for the African American community- both locally and nationally- and for each other. The journey will be challenging, but it can also be infinitely rewarding. As Dr. King noted, "You don't have to see the whole staircase, just take the first step." -President, Robin Capehart, Bluefield State College
In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic and our efforts to restore campus operations, our nation has been rocked by acts of violence and ensuing unrest and disruption that have now occurred here in Boston. We are confronted, once again, by the grim reality of systemic racism in our country. The killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and others bring to the forefront these abhorrent elements in our society. At a time when we rely on our police more than ever, we watch painful examples of some officers breaking the public trust in the most egregious ways. These injustices are amplified by the vividly disparate impact of COVID-19 on African Americans in particular, as well as on other ethnic or minority communities.

We grieve for our country and those who are affected by systemic racism, just as we grieve for those afflicted by COVID-19. We will defeat COVID-19 using science and our collective will. We must commit the same will and energy to defeat systemic racism. We must reject the forces in our society that are driving us apart and commit ourselves to creating a just society.

In the current troubled climate, I believe our commitment to restoring our residential campus is made all the more important by the divisions in our country. We are working nonstop to restore campus operations for the fall and will shortly make more detailed announcements about this effort. This is critical because our residential community brings together students from every background to live and learn together, with our faculty, in an atmosphere that promotes mutual understanding and respect. And we are continually working to do this better for all members of the Boston University community. As I write you today, I recall the two months last spring when we witnessed the uniting effect on our community of the expanded Howard Thurman Center for Common Ground, before campus life was abruptly interrupted by the virus. Our return to our residential campus and our personal interactions with one another that are not mediated by a computer screen is essential to the critical work we must undertake to build a campus, a community, and a society that is free from systemic racism.

When we return to Commonwealth Avenue, life on campus will not look or be the same as it was last fall, but we can create a learning community that preserves Boston University as a beacon for the country and world. Such beacons are desperately needed in our country today. I look forward to welcoming you back to campus.
The tragic events unfolding in Minneapolis are yet another reminder that systemic discrimination and violence against African Americans still plague our society.

Since its founding, our Bowie State University community has stood for the inclusion of diverse cultures and voices, and has wholeheartedly condemned acts of violence and incivility. I am deeply troubled by the tragic death of another African American male, George Floyd, in Minneapolis and the rioting that is occurring in response.

We must not let this tragedy go unnoticed. I encourage the BSU community to continue listening to the voices of people of all races that are crying out for change. While I am disheartened by the events in Minneapolis, I know we are stronger when we stand together and use our voices for what we know is right and just for all.



George Floyd's killing was cruel, inhumane, and contemptible. The injustice of violence against black people must stop.

The history of our great university is intertwined with the pursuit of justice. Brandeis was created in response to antisemitism and bigotry. We cannot tolerate discrimination, hatred, or violence against another person based on their race, religion, or background. These values are as important today as they were at our founding.

These are not just words or noble ideas. These are principles that inspire us at Brandeis to educate, to learn, and to act.

With that in mind, I join with Mark Brimhall-Vargas, chief diversity officer, in calling for us to come together, even if virtually. In the message Mark sent on Friday, he mentioned two different events happening this week. The Heller School is hosting a conference, "Co-Constructing Racial Justice through Life and Work."And Mark will host "Coming Together to Face Systemic Racism."I hope you will join me in attending both.

As Brandeisians, not all of our experiences are shared ones. We come from different backgrounds and have different perspectives. But I know that there are some things we have in common. This includes an unwavering commitment to justice, equity, and inclusion. It includes respecting other people, no matter their background.

I hope to see you at one of the events tomorrow or the next day. Let us come together to express our commitment to ending racist violence.
We write to you today as leaders of this university to express first deep sadness, but also anger, regarding the racist incidents that continue to cut short the lives of black people every day.

The sadness comes from knowing that this is not a mere moment for our country. This is historical, lasting and persistent. Structures of power, deep-rooted histories of oppression, as well as prejudice, outright bigotry and hate, directly and personally affect the lives of millions of people in this nation every minute and every hour. Black people continue to live in fear for themselves, their children and their communities, at times in fear of the very systems and structures that are supposed to be in place to ensure safety and justice.

The anger comes from knowing that we have been here before, and in fact have never left. Rallies and protests across the country are raising voices about ongoing injustice in the wake of the killings of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, Breonna Taylor in Louisville, KY, and George Floyd in Minneapolis. As a nation, we might have thought there would be some real change after the deaths of Freddie Gray and Sandra Bland, both who died in police custody in 2015, a year in which some justice organizations reported more than 100 police shootings of unarmed black people in the United States. And this was after our nation mourned and protested the ongoing epidemic of racism with the 2014 deaths of Michael Brown, Eric Garner, Tamir Rice and countless others before and after that year.

All of these deaths "launched national conversations"about anti-black racism. And we know that so many in our community keep asking how many times these conversations have to happen before there is real change. We know there are so many in our community hurting and deeply frustrated, and things are made worse by a pandemic that doesn't allow us to be together and is disproportionately killing black people. We have not been able to gather in some of the ways that usually unite us to build collective understanding, mourn and make calls for action.

We hope that wherever you may be, you seek to effect change in your communities in the ways that make sense for you while preserving your health and safety in this time of COVID-19. And this does not apply only to members of our community residing in the United States. Tragic and traumatic examples of injustice against racial, ethnic and religious minorities persist around the world, resulting in horrific instances of brutality, incarceration and death. Our local and national government leaders need to hear from us as individual constituents in their communities consistently and persistently on issues of racial and ethnic injustice.

As a university, we have tremendous resources in our departments, centers and institutes that can help our community and our society interrogate the persistent and deeply disturbing issues related to race, racism and police violence in America. In the weeks and months to come, we will leverage the expertise of our faculty, staff and students to develop programming, courses and research opportunities designed to advance knowledge and promote essential change in policy and practice in the name of equity and justice.

We are a community that does not condone acts of racism, discrimination or violence. This cannot be accepted as "normal."We must continue to demand equity and justice for all people, inclusive of all identities. And we must continue to care for and support each other, especially in this time when we are apart.
George Floyd was killed last week by someone sworn to protect him – someone sworn to protect all of us and the liberties we enjoy. It was evil and ugly. And as Mr. Floyd begged to be allowed to breathe, other officers stood by and did nothing. 
Over the past week, I've been reflecting, like a lot of Americans. What should we do – and what should I do – in the face of evil? Americans are understandably very angry, and some have chosen to protest. The right to protest is among our most cherished freedoms, and I respect all who do so nonviolently.
Over the last few days, I have met with small groups of UTEP students, faculty, staff and alumni. I talked to them about their experiences at UTEP and in El Paso to learn if there were concerns about racism on our campus, and particularly in our campus police force.
I was pleased that, generally, people feel safe here, and they don't think that there is a problem in the UTEP police force. "El Paso is different,"several told me. Still, many feel like "a minority in a minority"and "sometimes invisible."Not all of our students know where to go or what to do if they have a problem, and many of them had ideas about how to make things better.     
It's up to all of us to ensure our country lives up to the ideals of a free and equal society, and there will be much that we will need to do in the coming months – as individuals and as a campus community. 
To begin with, I will be asking our Student Government Association, our Faculty Senate, and our Staff Council to recommend campus colleagues who will work with our Chief of Police to review our policies, procedures, practices and training so that we continue to build trust between the UTEP Police Department and those whom they are sworn to protect. Good organizations always try to be better.
UTEP has a proud legacy of breaking down barriers, as music professor Engebret Thormodsgaard did in 1956 when he cast 20-year-old Bernice Bell to play the heroine opposite a white man in an opera production staged in Magoffin Auditorium; and as Don Haskins and our men's basketball team did in 1966 at the NCAA national championship, forever changing college athletics in this country. UTEP was the first baccalaureate institution in Texas to desegregate; we have a legacy of creating opportunities for those historically underserved by higher education in America, with a student body that is over 90% minority in a top tier research university. 
UTEP will remain true to our legacy by doing good in the face of evil.

Even as our nation struggles to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to bear witness to the reality that systemic racism and injustice pervade our society. The deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery are but the latest examples of violent and dehumanizing acts of racism across the country. I am heartbroken and outraged by these tragedies, and I know that the CMU community around the world shares my concern for the victims’ families, and for those in our community who are most impacted by these hateful acts. Please know that we see you, we care about you and we are here for you. While I recognize I cannot fully understand the pain, anxiety and fear these events inflict on Black and African Americans, including many in our own community, I know that it is up to each one of us – no matter our background – to confront and dismantle racism and injustice wherever they exist.

At times like this we must reflect on what we can do to make society, including our own community, more just. It would be inadequate to restate our commitment to respect, value, and foster diversity, equity and inclusion across our community. We know we have much work to do to live out these values at Carnegie Mellon. Learning about each other’s lived experiences; engaging with and supporting colleagues; challenging injustice when we witness it; and, especially, actively listening to each other will truly help us build the campus climate we seek.

Uniting in the face of challenging times is the Carnegie Mellon way. Acts of solidarity at The Fence, community discussions and listening sessions have helped us all grieve and heal together. Although we cannot gather in traditional ways, we will be working in the days and weeks ahead to curate virtual opportunities to consider actions we as a community can take to be the change we wish to see in the world. In the meantime, we ask our entire community to come together, with humility, compassion and empathy, to support one another, including those who are feeling especially vulnerable now.

With great respect for you and every member of our community,

Six years later, the words are the same.

I can't breathe.

After all of the mourning and protests, the lawsuits and training, the promises made and lessons learned, nothing, it seems, has changed.

Lying on a Staten Island sidewalk in the summer of 2014, Eric Garner said "I can't breathe"nearly a dozen times as a police officer's arm stayed tight around his throat.

Last Monday in Minneapolis, George Floyd repeated the same phrase—in his case, with an officer's knee pressing into his neck.

The local protests that followed have spread across the country, reaching Cleveland on Saturday. Ours opened peacefully, but devolved soon after marchers reached the Justice Center a few blocks away. Protesters pitched water bottles and spray-painted walls, officers released tear gas canisters, and before long, police cars were engulfed in flames.

Today protests continued in communities nationwide—and even extended to London and Berlin. In Cleveland, meanwhile, officials announced a noon curfew for downtown to allow time for clean-up of streets and stores.

But what about the systemic racism cited so often in recent days? How can a city, a country, "clean up"that?

We cannot—should not—ever try to wipe away the past.

We need to know it. Own it. And commit to forging a better future.

Four months after Eric Garner died in 2014, Tamir Rice was shot and killed by police while playing with a toy gun outside a Cleveland recreation center.

He was 12 years old.

The following year, the city accepted a 110-page settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice. The document required sweeping reforms to address the department's record of excessive force and urgent need to restore community trust.

The monitoring team's most recent report, issued in September, found force incidents fell by nearly a third compared to 2017.

That team, including deputy monitor Ayesha Bell Hardaway of our law school, still found shortcomings, in particular in terms of resources for training and data systems. Nevertheless, the group concluded the department had made "substantial progress."

While the medical examiner ruled Garner's death a homicide, the officer who choked him never faced charges. Nor did the one who killed Tamir. On Friday, Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin was arrested and charged with third-degree murder. He appears in court tomorrow.

Small steps, true. But in a moment of so much anger… and pain… and sorrow, they matter.

In the often-quoted words of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. "…the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."

As an institution of higher learning, we have a profound responsibility to the future. When it comes to this moment, how can we best begin to fulfill it?

This week, we will provide opportunities to engage, and share resources for those who would like support. Tonight, though, we want to remind you of a part of our legacy: The first Commencement address Frederick Douglass ever gave came at Western Reserve College in 1854.

"The relation subsisting between the white and black people of this country is the vital question of the age,"he told some 3,000 in attendance. "In the solution of this question, the scholars of America will have to take an important… part."




As we navigate these unprecedented times, we are now forced to deal with a series of tragic events. The unconscionable deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery were unnecessary incidents that have drawn national and international attention. Many people realize that this can and should be the moment to move America forward — into an era of social and economic justice, equity, and stability. We, as a nation, must do better.

Representing the two oldest Historically Black Colleges and Universities in our nation — Cheyney University of Pennsylvania and Lincoln University of Pennsylvania — we stand together against racial injustice. America's HBCUs are in a unique position to be at the forefront of this effort. Our institutions exist because there was a time when universities did not accept African Americans into the ranks of their student population, so we created our own. Now, more than ever, our vision and our voices must be heard.

We call on our students to focus their energy on bringing constructive change to the society in which we live. We ask them to use the modern technology and resources that previous generations did not have as the means to adapt, to overcome inequities and to change our communities for the better. Most importantly, we want our students to stay safe at all times, whether they decide to express their voices at home or in person at peaceful demonstrations.

We are reminded of the words of two prominent alumni of our storied institutions. They are just as relevant today as when they were first spoken and penned:

"…We do solemnly pledge ourselves to assist by our means any suit brought against the perpetrators of outrages…"

– Octavius V. Catto, Cheyney University, Class of 1858

"O, let my land be a land where Liberty
Is crowned with no false patriotic wreath,
But opportunity is real, and life is free,
Equality is in the air we breathe."

– Langston Hughes, Lincoln University, Class of 1929

We are in challenging times that require unity and a sense of purpose. Cheyney University and Lincoln University stand united in the fight for social justice.

Regrettably, African Americans are continuing to be targeted across our great nation. The Claflin University community calls for prayers for the family of George Floyd and all other victims of reported aggression by law enforcement against African Americans and people of color.
After the protests have ended, America must find ways to heal by restoring "Peace with Justice." The work will be hard, but through transformative education, unity, and a true commitment for a changed nation we can move forward.
Corrective action strategies must reflect immediate tools for corrective systemic and cultural change. Only through transformative education, is it possible for shifts in both behavior and mindsets to occur toward more positive humanistic outcomes.
In essence, a cultural shift must occur throughout all of society, especially police precincts, court systems, and prosecutors. Society can no longer tolerate:
•        Treatment of African Americans as second-class citizens.
•        Hasty and unjustified judgment based on the color of one's skin.
•        Excessive harm and brutality to African Americans by law enforcement officers
•        Education and more effective training of law enforcement officers are needed within training academies, and all systems governing the safety of our nation's citizens. African Americans must cease to be marginalized, brutalized and/or murdered by justice systems based on ethnicity.
The pathways for transformation in thinking and shifts in mindsets against such brutality is at the heart of Claflin University's new Center for Social Justice. Our Center will work across disciplines, communities, and demographics, to be a game changer regionally, nationally, and internationally. Our Center, though its programming, will foster collaborations and greater understanding of social justice issues throughout the region and beyond.

Claflin University, the first historically black college and university in South Carolina, is the place where the lives of young African Americans have been shaped for the future for more than 150 years. As such, we see it as our role and mission to be the place to re-shape systems and faulty mindsets that continue to marginalize and bring harm to these future leaders. We desire to be the catalyst for:
•        Helping justice workers around the nation learn how to embrace diversity.
•        Restoring "Peace with Justice."
•        Reducing violence against African Americans.
Our response to the continued violence against African Americans indicates a need for immediate cultural shifts in how African Americans are treated by reported "peacekeepers" around the nation. While many law enforcement officers are performing their duty with dignity and respect toward the public, there still remain too many others who abuse their roles. African Americans are dying and suffering at the hands of many law enforcement officers due to systemic racism and faulty underlying psycho-cultural assimilated orientations of race. While the current protests highlight this crisis, a real solution involves immediate and systemic change in both the mindset and behaviors of everyone involved in all areas of law enforcement and the criminal justice system, past and present.
The Center for Social Justice will provide a platform for our mission to lead a national movement of change. The following is a list of the Center's upcoming projects and activities that will affirm our leadership in this national movement.
1. Day of Reflection Vigil in memory of George Floyd and other recent victims of reported aggression by law enforcement against African Americans and people of color. This vigil, scheduled for June 19, will be a virtual event given the accelerated numbers of COVID-19 across the U.S., the increased risk of African Americans contracting COVID-19, and the number of people across the U.S. and the world who will join our prayer vigil.
2. Transformative action within the highest levels of government. Claflin University is calling on the U.S Department of Justice to partner with us to change the systemic violence towards African Americans throughout this country.
3. Transformative action with partners around the nation. Claflin University will convene the first National Summit for ending violence against African Americans. The Summit will unveil the infusion of anti-racist training resources to adequately support the training and empowerment of all levels of people involved in law enforcement across the country (developed by Claflin University) to confront both conscious and unconscious marginalizing views of minority groups. Representatives from various law enforcement agencies across the nation; HBCUs; UNCF; NAACP; local, state, and national representatives; and other local and national community groups will participate.
4. Annual training and certification programs will be offered to employees at all levels of law enforcement and the criminal justice system through our Center. The focus will be on cultural competencies, urban/rural policing, emotional intelligence and race relations.
5. The development of a "Peace with Justice Covenantal Statement" to be signed by all law enforcement officers prior to beginning service at their respective agencies.
6. The development of agreed upon actions to be taken by both African Americans and law enforcement in the event, for example, behavior after a traffic stop by law enforcement officers.
7. The development of a "Bill of Rights" for African Americans who feel they are being targeted because of their race which will carry a review by boards governing all areas of law enforcement.
Through these initiatives coordinated through the Center of Social Justice, Claflin University will remain at the forefront in the struggle for social justice, economic empowerment, and political equality.


Over the past several days, Clarkson University has joined the nation in grieving the death of George Floyd. The subsequent protests are more than just a response to an isolated incident. Change is necessary.
Clarkson’s core values call us to work towards addressing deep-rooted issues of racial inequality at the heart of these events. We must do so both locally and nationally through intentional actions and with respect to the dignity of our community members.
To our students, employees and alumni who are hurting, we offer our support and our resources.
For those who want to do something to make a difference,  by using our individual and collective voices participate in our Community Meeting on Thursday, June 4 at 7pm Eastern time
connect to the Clarkson community members below and reach out to your elected officials (https://usa.gov/elected-officials) to share the change you want.
I, like many others, am deeply saddened by recent tragic events nationwide and the deep divisions that still threaten our ability to move ahead as one nation.

Let there be no doubt: Racism, injustice, violence, brutality and hatred, in any form, cannot be tolerated.

Amid the turbulent times of 2020, we find our Clemson family physically apart due to COVID-19. Still, we can and should reach out to those in our family who are hurting or in need.

We also can put into practice our Clemson values: We value the rights of others. We are respectful of each other and our individual differences, beliefs and ideas. We actively listen and communicate. We seek to understand one another’s challenges, and are tolerant and forgiving.  And, we come from diverse backgrounds that make up one inclusive Clemson Family.

Our work is not only in the moment, but it also lies in the daily development of our University community, as we work to ensure that everyone feels welcome and valued as a part of this Clemson Family.

As we continue to prepare our campus for the return of our full community this fall, we must keep working to repair the world every day, step by step, to make Clemson and our world a better place for us all.

We can, and must, do better if we are to build a truly inclusive Clemson community. That work has never been more important than it is right now.

My entire leadership team and I are committed to continued progress in this area. Should anyone have ideas they would like to share with us, I encourage you to reach out to us at UnitedClemson@clemson.edu.


It pains us to see racism grip our nation and cause suffering in Black communities. This must stop.
Code.org stands together with the black community- our employees, partners, teachers, and their students-in the fight against the systemic inequity, racism, and injustice in the United States.

I have been contemplating the role of a university, especially in times of great crisis, this last week of May 2020 when the right words are so hard to come by. At William & Mary, one important role is continually to call ourselves to awareness of our history, in the present. As the great American writer James Baldwin taught us, "not everything that is faced can be changed, but nothing can be changed until it is faced."

None of us can ignore the turmoil, the heartbreak, of the racial divisions in our country — a cascade of grief for Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd has brought it to the fore. The racism and injustice we continue to witness bring grievous hurt to our communities. It comes to us at a moment when so many in this nation and the world are vulnerable, intensifying the loss and weariness of pandemic. We are facing again the legacy of our country's founding, that did not recognize the full humanity of all peoples. African Americans in our communities are asking, in this moment, do you recognize my full humanity? We do. We will face this with you.

A critical role of a university at moments of crisis is to rededicate ourselves to the propositions that sustain a pluralistic democracy. We recognize that we are still far from realizing them for all: fairness, respect for the human dignity of others, evidence-based argument, scientific discovery, the pursuit of opportunity and safety and equal justice under the law.

As a public university in Virginia, dedicated to the perpetuity of democratic institutions, it has never been more important that we commit ourselves to change that advances these values. We must find it within ourselves to look for hope. And as we face unspeakable acts, we must be there to help lift one another's heavy hearts — so we can study together, learn and work together, toward a more humane and free world. The past week's events demonstrate how much farther we have to go.

As we search for paths forward during these uncertain times, the role of a university provides some clarity and William & Mary's core values of belonging, respect and integrity provide direction. The diverse communities and perspectives we convene — to grapple with our imperfections and our legacies of inequality — are our best hope for empowering those who study here to build our future together.
Dear Mines Community,
For the past week, the news has been dominated by the tragic death of George Floyd and the ensuing protests, civil unrest and destruction. It has been difficult to watch and to process—the wrongness of the death, the intense anger and emotion of the protestors and the widely varying responses of our elected leaders.
Events like this and others over the past few years force us to face the uncomfortable reality that racism and bias are prevalent and persistent. They also provide the impetus for us, as individuals and the Mines community, to reflect on who we are, what we stand for and what we should do going forward.
We are a caring community that has embraced and is working toward achieving the aspirations expressed in our strategic plan for diversity, inclusion and access. We naturally feel for victims of racism and bias, we hurt when members of our community are hurt and we have pledged to create a community that supports the education and careers of students, staff and faculty from all backgrounds.
Our Achilles heel is that many of us do not understand with depth the issues at play today. Most of us do not come from backgrounds where we have had to endure racism—either based on the color of our skin or our country of origin. This can make us blind to our biases and unable to see the actions we need to take to support the success of all members of our community. How many of us can imagine being raised with a deep-seated fear of law enforcement personnel or being concerned for our life when going out for a run? That is reality for some members of our community.
In response to current events, we wanted to do something more than just issue a campus note that expresses outrage or rejects persistent and systemic racism and promises a better future. We decided instead to use this opportunity to challenge ourselves as campus leaders and all of you as community members to learn how to be more effective advocates and allies for those who experience racism and to develop a deeper understanding of the law enforcement community.
Our Mines DI&A team will follow up with our plan for the former—they already have a list of resources for you to learn more, ways for us to take meaningful action and opportunities for new campus programming. Our Mines Police Department is taking the lead on the second topic. They will be sending an email telling us a little about themselves, their training and programs and the town hall-style discussion they envision that includes participants from our police department and local law enforcement professionals from surrounding communities.
In the last few months, we have seen how individual and collective action can flatten curves and change outcomes. As we have faced the COVID-19 pandemic, we have become adept at putting aside our own self-interests and acted on behalf of our neighbors and larger society. We have spent hours educating ourselves about a menacing threat and using that information to adjust both our actions and our thinking. We can do the same thing, climbing together, as we progress toward creating the community we aspire to have at Mines.
And, as always, we are interested in your thoughts and suggestions.
Stay well and stay safe, Orediggers,
Paul C. Johnson, President and Professor
Amy Landis, Professor and Presidential Faculty Fellow for Access, Attainment and Diversity
Dan Fox, Vice President of Student Life
Dustin Olson, Chief of Police and Director of Public Safety
Rick Holz, Provost and Professor
Kirsten Volpi, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
As protestors gather in cities around the country to express their outrage over the atrocity of George Floyd's death, and as we grieve other incidents of hate and violence perpetrated against people of color—from Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky to Tony McDade in Florida and Chris Cooper in New York, we are united in our anguish and anger.

To the Black members of our community who are hurting so badly, your friends and colleagues all wish we could ease your pain. We are heartbroken for the families of those who have died at the hands of hate and for those who have endured racist incidents they will never forget. We are heartbroken for those protestors who have come together to be heard and who have been met with violence. And we are heartbroken for the young people around our country who must be watching and reading the news and wondering, "When will it stop? When will it change?"

As President of Colorado State, I affirm that it is not enough to commit to being a university and a community where hate and bias and racism are not tolerated. We are committed to being anti-hate, anti-bias, and anti-racist.

And because I recognize the inadequacy of my words during this painful and uncertain time, I urge all of you to read the powerful statement that the Office of the Vice President for Diversity released this morning. I echo their words, in hope that doing so brings some comfort:

To our Black and African American community members: we see you and we are here for you. Our hearts are with you. Our words and actions are with you.
I am writing in both a personal and an institutional capacity. Like everyone, I have been reflecting on the events of the last week with an increasing sense of anguish at the human suffering we are witnessing and of alarm at the national crisis we are facing in our political system.

Until last Friday, I did not think it was possible for me to forget even for a moment that we are in the midst of an historic pandemic, bringing untold human loss and crossing a numerical threshold of unimaginable proportions. But the horrifying ending of the life of George Floyd, a citizen in the very system of justice intended to protect him, and us, which then, along with other recent tragic deaths, drew back the curtains on centuries of invidious discrimination against African Americans, and others, did that. My hopes for a renewed sense of national purpose to continue the heroic efforts of so many, over so many generations, to change once and for all that terrible course of history have been raised, and then deflated. We are at a point in our history where political leadership is not only absent but also disturbingly confounding of the fundamental norms and values that take years and years of hard and determined work to develop—and yet are always so fragile when pitted against the worst instincts of human nature. My concerns here are not partisan, but basic to our culture.

Like so many others here, I have chosen to dedicate my life to sustaining and building academic institutions, and my beloved Columbia, specifically. There is no question that the expectations of intellectual character we choose to live by in the academic world are extreme, and we cannot reasonably expect them to set the bar for ordinary political deliberations and interactions. But what we are seeing today—which unfortunately included just in the last week an unfounded attack on our research and researchers, as well as on the University itself-is at the opposite end of the spectrum. If this were a single incident, that would be one thing, but in the current way of behaving, these become acts of intimidation and dangerous mischaracterization of expertise, one of the hallmarks of a descent into authoritarianism.

In the face of all this, it is only a start to express empathy and solidarity with those in our community who are experiencing loss and apprehension. But I certainly do so here, on behalf of all of us. Universities are not perfect and we have to accept our share of responsibility for the state of affairs we have today. But we are determined, even more so now, to change and to be better. More than anything we will continue to provide the society and the world with all the knowledge we can preserve and create and with a new generation of citizens and leaders who are prepared to live by, and fight for, the values of respect for reason, the love of ideas, and the wish to use these to care for others. 

We say it often and we don’t say it lightly: one of Concordia’s greatest strengths is our diversity.

As a university with international reach, our thoughts are with Black communities across North America as yet another horrifying incident of racist police brutality exposes the terrible grip that systemic racism continues to wield in our contemporary world.

Before Concordia became the university it is today, events in the late 1960s at one of our founding institutions, Sir George Williams University, changed the discussion about racism in Canada. Our campus has long been known for its accessibility and openness, offering opportunities to individuals and communities who were not finding them elsewhere.

Concordia does not tolerate racism or violence of any sort. The university stands in solidarity with those who combat hatred in any form through peaceful means.

We will continue to promote our values of diversity, equity and respect on campus for all. We must also recognize that we are many voices at the university. We come from profoundly different backgrounds and social positions.

With this reality in mind, two years ago Concordia launched a three-phase consultation to develop a strategy for advancing Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) in all aspects of university life. It happens that right now we’re entering the final stage of that process and will be hosting consultation sessions this month to present our findings. 

This isn’t the time or place to recite the initiatives Concordia has undertaken to address racism. Instead, it is, unfortunately, another occasion to acknowledge that there is much more to do as we pursue our mission to create a more just society and brighter future for all through education.

Finally, we recognize that many members of the university community may need support right now. Concordia has people ready to listen.

    Please visit the International Students Office, Multi-Faith and Spirituality Centre, Health Services and/or Counselling and Psychological Services.
    Students can also call Empower Me at 1-844-741-6389 for 24/7 counselling support over the phone.
    Employees can contact the Employee Assistance Program at 1-800-663-1142 (English) or 1-866-398-9505 (French).

The events of the past week come at an especially trying time. It is customary to say of COVID-19 that we are all in this together. And we are. But the past several days are a stark reminder that the health of society also depends on other forms of collective vigilance.

     Like so many of you, my family and I have been reeling over the events of the past week – events for which words seem inadequate. The images we have seen and the sounds we have heard have horrified us and broken our hearts. We are ashamed of the injustices that are perpetrated in our country, every day, against people of color; and of the reality that 155 years after Cornell was founded to help heal the wounds of a broken nation, that nation is, in many ways, still so badly broken.

    The extraordinary times in which we are living are shining a spotlight on so many issues of equity, and the lack of it: on the ways that rights and opportunity are unevenly distributed across our society, and the worth of our labor and our lives unequally valued. As an academic community built on the bedrock values of diversity, inclusion, and openness, we have an obligation to ensure that the forces of these events and our feelings drive us not backward, but forward. Over these past days, the words that have resonated with me the most, as I have struggled with the question of how our community can best embrace our collective challenge, are those of the Rev. William J. Barber II, spoken to an empty church in Goldsboro, North Carolina, this past Sunday: "We cannot try to hurry up and put the screams and the tears and the hurt back in the bottle, just to get back to some normal that was abnormal in the first place. Hear the screams. Feel the tears. The very people who have been rejected over and over again are the ones who have shown us the possibility of a more perfect nation."

    Words are important. Words matter. But our words – of sympathy, of support, of shared pain – are not enough. While the challenges are enormous, and we cannot fix them on our own, that does not absolve us from taking whatever steps we can to fight against systemic racism and structural inequality. As a community, we can and must act, through our teaching, our research, and our engagement, to stand up for those who are oppressed or marginalized, to educate ourselves and others, and to work to ensure that we – our entire society – do better.

    Here are some of the things that Cornell will do immediately:

    Strengthen Community Involvement in Public Safety

    Cornell's Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) is composed of students, staff and faculty members who advise Cornell University Police on issues of public safety and victims' advocacy. The committee, which last met in April, makes recommendations to improve campus security policies and procedures and reviews issues that affect the overall safety and well-being of Cornell's diverse community. I have asked the PSAC to redouble their efforts to engage our community, with a specific focus on procedures and training in the areas of use of force, de-escalation techniques, and cultural competency.

    Summit with Regional Law Enforcement Agencies

    In addition to the work of the PSAC, the university administration has convened discussions in recent years with representatives of regional law enforcement agencies, including Cornell University Police, the Ithaca Police Department, the Tompkins County Sheriff's Office, and the New York State Police. These conversations have touched on shared interests, with a focus on understanding and sharing best practices around law enforcement interactions with communities of color. We will organize another session as soon as possible and include student, staff and faculty representatives in this important, ongoing conversation.

    Community Conversations on Race and Racism

    Using the community chat framework, the Office of Human Resources will be offering 75-minute Zoom sessions on topics such as institutional racism and the context of the current protests, ways to be an ally to our Black colleagues, and how to engage in proactive and meaningful dialogue around difficult topics such as racism. Details on the programs, and information on how to register, will be sent to all staff and faculty members by Vice President Mary Opperman early next week.

    Campus Community Book Read

    As a campus community, we have a collective responsibility to engage in difficult but critical conversations – to listen genuinely to, and learn from, one another. To help bring focus to these conversations, I invite all of you to participate in a Community Book Read of "How to Be an Antiracist," by National Book Award winner Ibram X. Kendi. We will soon provide all students, faculty, and staff with information about how to access an electronic copy of the book, along with a schedule of virtual discussions which will take place over the summer. I hope you will choose to read the book and to join in the conversation.

    Dialogue with Local Community Leaders

    I will be meeting next week with a diverse group of local elected, nonprofit, business, and faith community leaders to review the events of the last few weeks and consider how we might advance town-gown initiatives to further support the needs of our friends and neighbors.

    These plans are in addition to the ongoing work of the Belonging at Cornell framework that emerged from our diversity and inclusion initiatives, many of which were proposed by the President's Task Force on Campus Climate and/or the Provost's Task Force to Enhance Faculty Diversity. More than three-quarters of the goals laid out by the Task Force in 2018 have now been achieved, including the creation of a mandatory Intergroup Dialogue Project experience for all new undergraduates, an improved bias reporting process, implicit bias training for all faculty search committees, and increased support from the provost for faculty hires that advance diversity.

    All of this work will continue, but so much more needs to be done, at Cornell and beyond. I want to close by echoing the words of the Rev. Barber, in saying that there will be no return to "normal" from where we are right now. We are in a time of profound societal change – change that we, as a community and a society, have the power to influence and to shape. We can, and we will, rise to this challenge. Our own consciences demand it, as do our values as a community, and our ethos as Cornellians.
The amount of pain and suffering we are witnessing and feeling is only a snapshot of a broader social reality. We, and everyone before us, have had a role in arriving at where we are today. As such, it is of paramount importance to step up and take a stance. It is our responsibility and a moral imperative to not stand by and simply witness the events around us. We must collectively find our voice and reject racism and inequality. Silence perpetuates, doubt reinforces, and rationalization of incident after incident only compounds the pain so many in our society continue to endure.
While CRA has a long history of celebrating, promoting, and advocating for inclusivity, we cannot be satisfied with continuing the status quo. We will continue to actively stand against discrimination and hatred. We will find new ways to use our voice in Washington to advocate for policies that address the inequities that exist in our field. We will amplify the efforts of our membership organizations wherever we can to help them improve the spaces they occupy and create an environment that is more welcoming, just, and equitable to all. Only together can we begin to right the long history of wrongs that have led us to this place and time.

We start with acknowledging the issues by talking to those around us and explicitly stating that we stand with them when they stand against discrimination and hatred.
We know that racism:
•        Is systemic and institutionalized, was intentionally designed, and established well before the foundation of our nation.
•        Continues to oppress people of color around the world – denying basic human rights, denying opportunity, and even more tragically denying many of their very lives.
•        Is learned behavior that may be unlearned through education, compassion, empathy, and action.
•        Drives a wedge between communities, and in doing so limits the enviable quest for a society steeped in respect.
•        The privileged benefit from its existence and must be willing to sacrifice to overcome it.
•        Lives in our homes, schools, workplaces, parks, churches, stores, amusement parks, government, law enforcement – it lives in us all to varying degrees.
To stand against it, we:
•        Acknowledge the existence of racism within our communities and commit to defeating it.
•        Call out and reject rationalization of incidents and distortion of information.
•        Educate ourselves and those around us to be better equipped to address racism in its many forms.
•        Stand up against the status quo by using our voice and agency.
•        Commit to systemic change in laws, policies, procedures, etc.
•        Dedicate all necessary resources to create lasting change.

We stand in solidarity against racism and injustice. #BlackLivesMatter #CSforALL:  As CSforALL, we acknowledge that current systems are inherently flawed, biased, and unequal. Today, in solidarity with the fight against systematic racism and white supremacy, we say this with increased emphasis. CURRENT SYSTEMS ARE INHERENTLY FLAWED, BIASED, AND UNEQUAL.

We extend our support to ALL who are actively working to identify, change, repair, and replace the systems that cultivate inequity.

Educational equity can never exist in communities where life and liberty are not fundamental rights.

#BLACKLIVESMATTER 




The tragedy of George Floyd's death in Minneapolis is heartbreaking, yet all too familiar. From Trayvon Martin to Eric Garner to Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor, as well as earlier this week in Central Park, we have seen too many deaths and incidents of harassment perpetrated against the African American community. Racism and its deadly consequences are rooted in United States history. Slavery and its legacy live on, and these incidents make all too real the impact of this history.

In the past few weeks, we have witnessed the jarring violence of racism in images in the news and social media. Even in such unsettling times, these events are still occurring and prove that our country is still not immune to racism and the hatred it brings. These events cause grief, sadness, anger and frustration at our inability to conquer racism and protect our loved ones and our communities.

In our grief, let us pledge to work for change, to seek reform and to hold each other accountable for taking a stand against injustice. Let us work to become instruments of peace. As Dr. Reverend Martin Luther King once said, “Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate; only love can do that." In these times of darkness, let us protect and care for one another. The DePaul University community will stand together in solidarity against racism and hate.

At DePaul we are not indifferent when we see that the dignity of entire communities is not respected; whether it be through violent conflict, subtle discrimination, overt negligence of rights, or words and actions of hatred. These facts continue to generate anxiety and suffering, driving communities apart and putting peace, development and democracy under mounting pressure. We are DePaul, a united diverse community. Following the inspiration of St. Vincent de Paul, we promote, respect and protect the dignity of all.

For those who are struggling with recent events, I want to remind community members that University Counseling Services and the Religious Diversity and Pastoral Care offices are sources of support for those who seek assistance in these stressful times. 

We in the Drexel community are disheartened, disturbed and enraged by the pervasiveness of racism and violence against African Americans — most recently, George Floyd's senseless death in Minneapolis police custody, which prompted the demonstrations in Philadelphia and every other major city.

The tragedy of George Floyd's death, and the recent killings of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky, are just the latest examples of our nation's abject failure to address the root causes of inequality. At a time when the African American community is bearing a disproportionately heavy burden from the COVID-19 pandemic, this unrelenting racial violence against the black community exacts a tremendous physical and emotional toll.

We are living in what the American Psychological Association has described as a "racism pandemic" that exacts a heavy emotional toll. We understand that black individuals carry an additional burden of fear and anxiety, simply by nature of the color of their skin. As the APA states, "If you're black in America — and especially if you are a black male – it's not safe to go birding in Central Park, to meet friends at a Philadelphia Starbucks, to pick up trash in front of your own home in Colorado or to go shopping almost anywhere."

We are painfully aware that our campus community is suffering, and that anger and fear are dominating the lives of many of our students, faculty, professional staff and alumni. Many students in Philadelphia are on the front lines of peaceful protest in this city, and students who are home in other parts of the country are doing the same. They are rightly shocked when they are met with resistance. We are proud of their activism and courage, and we support their actions.

At times like this, it is imperative that we harness the values of our campus community to insist on change wherever we are, change in our country and change on our campus. As a university community, we can strive for an extra measure of compassion and understanding as we move forward to action. We can take the time to listen to one another, to have hard conversations about racism, to confront uncomfortable truths about ideologies of white supremacy, and to use what we learn to create an anti-racist campus free from intolerance and hatred. These dialogues are a first step to create a more equitable community as an ongoing aspiration for our University.

On Friday, June 5, at 12:30 p.m., we are opening up a space for dialogue about racism and the difficult path forward to become active allies in the fight against racism. We hope you will join this dialogue and let us know your plan to attend this inaugural virtual conversation by responding at this online link.

We call on all members of the Drexel community to insist on a more just and equitable future, and to speak out in peaceful but defiant resistance to the racial injustice endured by the African American community. We stand with the Drexel community — our students, faculty, professional staff, trustees and alumni – in calling for an end to the racism and discrimination in our country.

We hope you will join this dialogue on Friday and for future conversations, and we urge you to stay safe.
This week, as the United States passed the grim milestone of 100,000 lives lost to the coronavirus, the horrifying death of George Floyd has drawn national attention to fundamental and systematic disparities of justice in our nation. The events in Minneapolis have occurred on the heels of the murder of Ahmaud Arbery, the shooting of Breonna Taylor and in the context of the disproportionate impacts of COVID-19 on communities of color, including here in Durham. For many people at Duke and elsewhere, the pain, trauma and sense of hopelessness is overwhelming.

Every day, throughout our country, African American and other marginalized communities have their safety and dignity threatened—in their places of work, in public spaces, and in their homes and neighborhoods. This ongoing history of structural and sustained racism is a fundamental and deeply distressing injustice, here as elsewhere.

But we as a university must do more than recognize and grieve these circumstances; we must work together to change them.  In our Duke statement of values, we affirm our commitment to trust, respect, and inclusion. In that spirit, Duke University will continue the work of addressing generations of racism and injustice, of seeking ways to approach one another with respect, and of building communities that are truly safe, supportive, and inclusive for all.

My very best wishes to the entire Duke family in this troubling time.
The ECEP leadership team acknowledges that our work to broaden participation in computing will only have its full desired impact if we actively confront the systemic racism that has led to the current state of affairs in this country:
As advocates for equity in CS, we must, in both words and action, challenge the deeply ingrained structural racism permeating our culture and our educational systems. Real and lasting change will require ALL of us to dismantle structural inequities by engaging as allies and advocates for change.



As Emory leaders speak out against racist violence, the community will come together Friday, June 5, to unite for an anti-racist world.

A university-wide online solidarity vigil is set for 4 p.m. Friday. Earlier in the day, the Emory medicine community will hold "White Coats for Black Lives" events on the Emory Quadrangle and at six hospitals. Masks and social distancing will be mandatory.

"All of us are grappling with the violent deaths of Georgia resident Ahmaud Arbery, Minneapolis citizen George Floyd, Kentucky citizen Breonna Taylor, and too many other instances of racism and violence against people of color," Emory President Claire E. Sterk said in a message sent to the Emory community May 30. "These senseless acts strike at the heart of Emory's commitment to upholding equity, diversity and inclusion. Now, more than ever, we must stand together against intolerance and racism." 

Sterk will speak at Friday's online solidarity vigil, which is hosted by the Office of Spiritual and Religious Life along with Campus Life. Other speakers include Carol Henderson, vice provost for diversity and inclusion and chief diversity officer; LaNita Campbell, director of the Office for Racial and Cultural Engagement; the Rev. Greg McGonigle, university chaplain and dean of religious life; and Olivia Johnson, a student in the Laney Graduate School.

The event will also include a reading from Jericho Brown, Emory's Winship Distinguished Research Professor in Creative Writing, who recently won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry. Attendees should register to attend and are encouraged to light a candle for those who have died.

 "The Emory community stands for justice in all aspects of our mission, and when confronted with hatred and prejudice, we must speak out," Sterk emphasized in her message. "Emory respects the dignity and value of all human beings, and our community will continue to engage in conversations that matter, no matter how difficult the dialogue, so that together, we might seek a more just and equitable world for all."

Emory President-elect Gregory L. Fenves, who takes the helm of the university Aug. 1, sent a message to the community June 2 reflecting on the tragedies of the past weeks and the protests in Atlanta and across the nation.

"The murder of George Floyd, under the knee of a police officer, horrified me as a human being and as an American," Fenves said. "Mr. Floyd's death, coming in the wake of so many other killings of African American citizens — including Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia — has unleashed anger and outrage about systemic racism that has not been addressed more than 60 years after the Civil Rights Movement started. We are still fighting the same battles and people have had enough — of racist violence, of organized hatred and of longstanding social inequities." 

But amid the despair, the Emory community has the ability to lead change "through education, research, health care and creative expression, but also by leading with your hearts," he continued, noting that he learned from his father that "it is our duty to speak up — to not be silent — so that injustice could be rooted out and overcome. 

"It is my hope, then, that the tragedy of George Floyd's murder and those before him will awaken us all to our deepest flaws and help us heal, change and create a better future, together," Fenves said.

Interim Provost Jan Love called on the Emory community to remember that "education is only one tool, but it is powerful" and to note that the university's motto — "the wise heart seeks knowledge" — "deliberately combines head and heart."

"Righteous rage is a healthy immediate emotion in response to the outrageous violence we are witnessing perpetrated against black people," Love said in June 3 message to the Emory community. "If you want to be part of meaningful, productive and life-giving change, definitely get mad, but then get busy. We all have work to do. Let's do it together."
White Coats for Black Lives

The Emory School of Medicine community will gather in seven locations earlier on Friday for "White Coats for Black Lives" events. Participants will kneel for 8 minutes and 46 seconds in remembrance of George Floyd, as well as countless other victims of racist violence. 

"Our aspirations for a racism-free world seem so very, very far away. For that, we should all be sad, angry, and at the same time energized to do all that we can to serve as forces of change to support each other, regardless of race, and to confront both racism and the racists who would seek to divide and damage," Emory Healthcare CEO Jonathan S. Lewin said in May 30 message. 

The events take place at 1 p.m. and all are welcome to attend; masks and social distancing will be mandatory. Locations include the following: 

    School of Medicine and Clifton Campus (EUH): Emory Quadrangle
    Emory University Hospital Midtown: Orr Building Courtyard
    Emory Saint Joseph's Hospital: Meditation Garden
    Emory Johns Creek Hospital: Classrooms A & B, Lower Level
    Emory Decatur Hospital: Front Plaza by the flagpole
    Emory Hillandale Hospital: Main Entrance
    Grady Memorial Hospital: Main Entrance on the corner of Jesse Hill and Gilmer Street





Our world is in pain, from ills both medically treatable and socially teachable. Florida Tech is proud to have one of the most diverse student populations of any U.S. university. Justice and equality are core principles that we value here, and education sheds light where there otherwise was darkness. I look forward to the conversations we will have as a community of learners when students arrive for fall classes. Until then, I hope that all of you stay safe and healthy, open your minds to ideas that make you uncomfortable, and always treat your fellow humans with dignity and respect.




We are going to keep this statement brief. Words are failing all of us in the wake of George Floyd's murder. When leaders reach for words like outrage, horror, or despair, they only do more damage when they are not matched by action. As James Baldwin once famously said, "I can't believe what you say, because I see what you do."

So, no words without action. We are determined to keep George Mason University true to its motto, to be a place of "freedom and learning."We will take whatever steps are necessary to ensure every member of Mason Nation, and every visitor to our campuses, is safe: physically safe, emotionally safe, culturally safe, and intellectually safe, to become who they want to be.

To do that, today we directed the senior leadership of Mason to conduct a thorough review of our academic, research, public service, student service, campus law enforcement, and alumni offerings that contribute to social justice, racial equity, and peaceful conflict resolution. And we have directed them also to root out areas where we have fallen short of our intentions, through either conscious or unconscious bias.

Where we have services and expertise to offer a hurting, grieving community, we will step up – to the Mason community, to northern Virginia, to the national capital region, and beyond. We simply will not allow this moment to divert Mason from the long-standing pursuit of access to excellence, which is our ultimate tool to fight the perpetuation of racism.

And where we learn we have failed the diverse community we so proudly serve, we will direct necessary resources to fill the void. The COVID-19 pandemic has put us under unprecedented financial duress, but nothing is more strategically or morally vital to our future than truly living up to our mission to be an "inclusive academic community committed to creating a more just, free, and prosperous world."

In the weeks and months ahead, we will have more to say about what we have to offer to advance social justice and healing, and about what changes we will make to improve how Mason will better serve the community and the nation as a whole. We invite you to stay tuned and be prepared to act with us.

Our nation is fighting two pandemics – the COVID-19 virus, and the pandemic of racism in America. George Mason University will address both with the same vigor and sense of urgency.
Like everyone in our community, I write to you today feeling sad and angry about the brutal killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor, along with the racist incident in Central Park. 

I cannot begin to fathom the hurt GW’s Black students, faculty and staff may be feeling. My heart goes out to all who are suffering and may not feel safe. 

Please know that we continue to offer support and resources and are planning some online community events that are referenced in this message from Vice Provost Caroline Laguerre-Brown and the Office of Diversity, Equity and Community Engagement.

While I wish we had the opportunity to host these conversations and support one another on campus, I know that we remain a strong community, and we will find ways to connect until our planned return to campus this fall. I look forward to working together—harnessing the power of the community that comprises this great institution—to address racism and injustice on our campus and in our society.
Like many of you, I have struggled to process the senseless, heartbreaking killing of George Floyd by a police officer in Minneapolis. It is hard not to see a pattern of violence against black people when this tragic death comes on the heels of Ahmaud Arbery’s shooting right here in Georgia, Breonna Taylor’s in Kentucky, and so many others before them across our country. I acknowledge the pain many members of our community are feeling, and I stand in solidarity with our African American brothers and sisters and all people of goodwill, as we find a path forward.

There is much soul-searching we need to do as a society. We all share in the responsibility to deliver on our foundational belief that all people are created equal and are endowed with the same fundamental rights. While we demand change from those with the power to enact it, we must also ask what each of us can do to make good on that promise. And that includes all of us at Georgia Tech.

For the past few months, we have worked together on a new vision of inclusion, public service, and impact. That vision requires that we open the doors of opportunity to more people of underrepresented backgrounds. That we reduce barriers of access that still persist and that have nothing to do with talent. That we reject the status quo and do better. That we listen to and work with our students to create a more inclusive environment where people of all backgrounds can learn and grow. That we educate students who can think critically about the society we live in and can lead us to a better place.

As scholars and researchers, we need to ask ourselves how the science and technology we advance and the theories and solutions we propose help all of us live better lives. As alumni and leaders in business and society, we need to hold ourselves to a higher standard of equal opportunity, inclusivity, and impact.

Last September, we had the privilege to meet, listen to, and honor the first four African American students in the Institute’s history. That day helped me better appreciate our long struggle to become more just and inclusive — and how, by being more just and inclusive, we have become much stronger. Today, we must reflect on how much further we have to go.

I encourage all of us at Georgia Tech to be true to our motto of Progress and Service, to deliver on our mission to develop leaders who advance technology and improve the human condition. Those aren’t just words on a page. We have a responsibility to our campus community, to our local community, and to our nation to help change our world for the better. We have a responsibility to empower and include more people, backgrounds, and perspectives in the process.
The senseless killings of Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd have brought forward understandable pain and anger about racism and violence against black Americans. There is no place for racism and violence in our society or at Georgia State.

As a society and a nation, we must be better. The racism and violence that plague our society must stop, and the healing must begin.

Atlanta‘s many decades of peaceful protest and advocacy for social justice have resulted in real and positive change in our society. Georgia State is an example of that change. Racial exclusion was replaced with inclusion, and racism was replaced with black students excelling as academic and community leaders. We’re on the right track, and through continued hard work and sustained commitment we will together help bring an end to the pain and injustice that ail our society.

Now, I ask each and every member of the Georgia State community to stand in solidarity in rejecting racism and violence and to commit to building a better future where opportunity is real and just.


The current state of affairs in our nation today saddens and
enrages me.  Equal justice under the law
is a cornerstone of liberty, but this was not the case with Mr. George
Floyd.  He was murdered by a white
Minneapolis policeman who put his knee on Mr. Floyd's neck until he died.  The policeman in question and those who stood around and watched this crime being committed have now been arrested, but
should have been arrested immediately. 
It is my hope that they will all be prosecuted to the fullest extent of
the law. 
As president of Hampton University and one who witnessed and
participated in the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950's and 1960's, I am
pleased to see those who have initiated peaceful protests expressing their
concerns about police brutality, particularly towards African Americans.  During the late 1950's and 1960's, I participated
in marches and other peaceful protests that were led by Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr.  I was also the vice-president of a statewide student Civil Rights organization. 
My father was a building contractor and Civil Rights
leader.  Therefore, our household was one of those homes that was a meeting place for the local organizations.  It also served as a rest stop for out of town
travelers who could not use public accommodations because of the racism of the
time.  For those travelers, most of these
visits occurred on the weekends and might include a meal, a glass of tea or
lemonade, a nap on the living room sofa, or an overnight stay.  Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. visited several
times although I do not recall him spending the night.  His brother Rev. A. D. King was a frequent
visitor and overnight guest.  Their
visits always included interesting conversations.  I shall forever be indebted to my father for
allowing me to sit in on some of those meetings.  He gave me permission to be present with the
proviso that I could not ask a question, venture an opinion, or otherwise
speak.  As he would say, "You are to
listen and learn."
In these meetings, there were conversations about successes,
failures, problems, promises, and plans for progress in the Civil Rights
Movement.  Some of the attendees urged
the abandonment of peaceful demonstrations and encouraged violent responses
that matched the batons, bullets, hoses, and dogs used by police against
us.  Dr. King spoke out strongly against
the use of these tactics.  He felt that
it would hurt our cause, and he was proven right.  In that same vein, I think that our cause is
hurt today when we focus more on retaliation and less on seeking police reform
and justice.
While peaceful protestors rally to make their voices heard,
the violence, looting, and destruction of property are not the solution. These
acts hinder the cause of justice that so many are seeking.  Peaceful demonstration is a part of African
American history, but engaging in the above-mentioned acts hurts our cause. To
be sure, there will be criticism for those of us who believe in peaceful
protest to achieve desired goals and objectives.

 

I do not have all of the answers, but three specific
thoughts come to mind.   First, now is
the time for us to again come together in our homes and churches to have
conversations about how we can move forward as a people and as a nation to end
police brutality against African Americans. Secondly, every municipality in the
country should establish a colloquium board to facilitate dialogue between
representatives of the police and the African American community to include
ministers, educators, organizational leaders, and other citizens of
good-will.  Thirdly, every state and
local police academy as well as other providers of law enforcement officers
should establish a mandatory class on policing in the African American
community.

 

While I cannot claim to know all of the answers to these
problems nor the timeline for resolution, I do know that nothing can be
accomplished unless we work together for the betterment of ourselves, our
communities, and our nation. Until this happens, justice will not served.  All of us must understand the immorality of
racism as we support the victims of racial discrimination.





The last several months have been disorienting for all of us. COVID-19 has profoundly disrupted the lives of people worldwide. It has caused more than 365,000 deaths around the globe and more than 100,000 in the United States alone. Forty million Americans have lost their jobs, and countless others live in fear of both the virus and its economic consequences.

In the midst of this incomprehensible loss, our nation has once again been shocked by the senseless killing of yet another black person—George Floyd—at the hands of those charged with protecting us. Cities are erupting. Our nation is deeply divided. Leaders who should be bringing us together seem incapable of doing so.

I cannot help but think back to 1968, the spring of my junior year in high school. First, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, then Bobby Kennedy. Riots broke out in nearby Detroit, as they did across the country. Then, like now, our nation was hugely polarized, and we desperately struggled to find common ground that might unite us. 

At the time, hope was in short supply. It seemed difficult to imagine how we would move forward, but we did. As I think about the challenges that we face today, I return again and again to what I believe:

I believe in the goodness of the people of this country—and in their resilience.

I believe that all of us, liberal and conservative, Democrat and Republican, whatever our race or ethnicity, want a better life for our children.

I believe that America should be a beacon of light to the rest of the world.

I believe that our strength as a nation is due in no small measure to our tradition of welcoming those who come to our shores in search of freedom and opportunity, individuals who repay us multiple times over through their hard work, creativity, and devotion to their new home. 

I believe in the American Dream.

I believe in the Constitution, the separation of powers, the First Amendment—especially the right to a free and independent press that holds those in power accountable, and to a free and independent judiciary.

I believe in the 14th Amendment’s guarantee of equal protection of the laws—for everyone, not just for those who look like me.

I believe that no person is above the law regardless of the office they hold or the uniform they wear. Those who break the law must be held accountable.

I believe that one measure of the justness of a society is how it treats its most vulnerable members.

I believe we must provide opportunity to those who may not encounter it on their own so that they may achieve their full potential.

I believe in the power of knowledge and ideas to change the world, of science and medicine to defeat disease, of the arts and humanities to illuminate the human condition.

This is just some of what I believe. I hope you will pause during these troubled times to ask what you believe. Even more importantly, I hope you will find the strength and determination to act on your beliefs—to repair and perfect this imperfect world. Those of us privileged to work or study at a place like this bear special responsibilities. As Luke teaches us, from those to whom much is given, much is expected.


Recent months have cast a long shadow as the pandemic continues its deadly toll on the nation ravaging Black, Brown and Native American communities in particular.   And in the midst of such anguish, the images of Black Americans treated without humanity and – in some cases – brutalized in the last moments of their earthly lives' triggers waves of emotion including staggering grief and righteous anger.   

This constant attack on the Black experience must end.

I am the proud father of two precocious teenagers.  Like many parents we have very purposely had "The Talk"– the unwelcome but necessary conversation about how to prepare for engagement with law enforcement. Watching these modern-day examples of social injustice and unrest in the presence of my 15-year-old son has brought up some difficult conversations. He reminded me of a time when we were heading to campus and were pulled over. I personally don't recall all the details of that stop. However, my son vividly remembers the anger he felt as a result of the interaction. Upon seeing the news out of Minneapolis, he turned to me and asked, "Dad, should I just fall to the ground if a cop approaches me?"Praying for the right words to say, I told him that he should remain calm and try to express himself to the best of his ability. Yet, even after struggling through that conversation, the myriad names of innocent Black lives taken through lethal force  – young and old, men and women –  testify to the insufficiency of that advice. 

This moment of compounding crises leaves little doubt that the daily experience of so many in our community remain marked by heightened vulnerability and a likelihood to encounter deadly force at the hands of misguided individuals or those whose bigoted views betray the oaths they swore to protect and serve.  

Howard University emerged from the ashes of the American Civil War, a conflict that raised but hardly resolved the racial divide in this nation.  Firmly rooted in a promise that offered the transformative power of education to all, Howard has consistently taught that the highest use of knowledge gained at the Mecca is demonstrated in service above self; focused on addressing systematic injustices and entrenched interests antagonistic to our enjoyment of life and liberty.  Our scholars have enlightened, our physicians have healed, our lawyers have advocated, our activists have agitated, our entrepreneurs have built, our counselors have comforted, and our artists have enriched even life itself.

Our nation would be a shadow of itself and remain as imperfect as it was at its inception without the contributions of Howard University and all it stands for. 

In the context of current events there must always be accountability for all found responsible through a fair and thorough investigation so that justice is served. Yet even as we see individual perpetrators on our screens, we must remain mindful that the distorted worldviews and ugly biases have too often been codified into inequitable or predatory systems are equally culpable.  The book of Ephesians reminds us "For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places."

We were born for such a time as this. And I am convinced that institutions like Howard University are destined to continue to build, mold and train the leaders who will help bring needed change to the structures of our society.

No pandemic, no declining economy, no period of prosperity, and no cure for every medical ailment will undo or hide the realities of the Black experience. We must bring consistency to that struggle and focus our intellect and passion daily to prepare for the hard work that must be done to confront evil and systematic oppression. 

As students: remain vigilant about your studies. You are matriculating through Howard University for a purpose that is greater than yourselves. You are the hope of our ancestors and despite the new challenges that will come our way, each day that you remain resolved to focus on your destiny is a day that brings us closer to resolution to many of our world's dilemmas.

As faculty: continue to focus our energies and concern on our students so that they would be nurtured, thrive and excel. We all are intricately woven into the fabric of the Howard University legacy.  Keep researching, writing, and speaking out to craft solutions to the contemporary challenges we face.  We must be diligent in our work and conversations with students to hear and walk with them through these trying times. 

Let's not forget that we are all living these experiences in our daily lives outside of Howard. It is everywhere that we are. Let's first start by not looking past each other wherever we may be and work on actively loving each other. 

In this moment it is necessary to grieve over another life taken unnecessarily and those who loved him who are now broken and left behind to mourn.  It's okay to be angry. It's okay to be sad. It's okay to feel numb. Stay there as long as you need to. I encourage you to take those feelings and channel them into something durable. Write about it. Sing about it. Participate in the electoral process and vote about it. 

We must remember the names of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Atatiana Jefferson, Breonna Taylor and the countless other lives gone too soon.  

We can honor their memories through a life of purpose in confronting and correcting those skewed systems until they respect the humanity and inherent dignity in each of us.

You have noticed that we haven’t posted much lately. As Black Women, we are taking time away from social media for self-care and processing these events individually.
We hope that you are too doing what you can to protect your peace.
{Self-care resources in Bio}

The IEEE Computer Society is, and remains, strongly committed to equity, diversity, and inclusion and we see no place for hatred and discrimination in our communities. Equity, diversity, and inclusion are central to the goals of the Computer Society and all of our activities. We are proactively supporting diversity and inclusion with the creation of a new taskforce this year that will address ways the Computer Society can improve its mission to better serve those most under-represented in our community. However, we know there is more we can do to support these ideals of equity, diversity, and inclusion.

We are ready to listen. Please send your suggestions to inclusion@computer.org and your comments will be shared with Computer Society leadership and the Computer Society Diversity & Inclusion Task Force.



History teaches us that silence is acceptance. This isn't the time to be quiet. At #icsme2020, we strive to build a safe, diverse and inclusive environment. We support and uplift the Black voices in our community. Today—and always—we stand in solidarity with the Black community.

As the events following the tragic death of George Floyd in Minneapolis have created unrest in our city, state, and nation, I want to reaffirm our unwavering support of our students, faculty, staff, alumni, and Bronzeville neighbors of African descent. Simply put, the university unequivocally condemns discrimination and violence against all African Americans within our community and across the country. 

The pain and outrage that many of us feel at this time is palpable. I reaffirm this university's ongoing and strong commitment against racism of all kinds. Our university is dedicated to peacefully working with our community to reject fear, violence, and injustice and to contribute to positive change in Chicago and in our nation. 

Our university was founded to bridge inequity in education and opportunity—and that informs every aspect of who we are as a university. As outlined in our Statement on Community, Inclusion, and Diversity, "We embrace the contributions that differences offer."

Please stay safe during this difficult time.
****video message***
Like many of you, I have followed the events in Minneapolis and the demonstrations in cities around the nation in response to the tragic death of George Floyd with a mixture of deep sadness, frustration, anger and disappointment. My heart goes out to all those feeling pain and anguish over this senseless death and to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives in the protests of recent days or who have suffered loss and damage in other ways. It is truly difficult to comprehend this tragedy and to find the right words to console the many people, especially members of the African-American community, who are hurting right now and hoping that justice will ultimately be served.  

To echo IU Vice President James Wimbush, who eloquently expressed his sadness and great concern earlier today on the reaction, in his home city of Indianapolis, to George Floyd’s death, the list is far too long of those black and brown individuals who have been subjected to disturbing violence in recent years. This list underscores the racism, bigotry, intolerance and hatred that too many members of our society, especially people of color, are forced to confront on a daily basis. It also draws our attention to the deeply disturbing growth in recent years here and around the world in the number of hate groups, as well as the immensely concerning increase in the number of acts of hatred and violence against minorities.

Here at IU, students of color now make up more than a quarter of the university’s total enrollment. Hence what is happening in Minneapolis and other cities around the nation serves as a powerful reminder that we have a special obligation to work to ensure that our campus communities are places where differences of all kinds, whether of race, ethnicity or belief, are respected, valued and protected, and where hatred, bigotry and intolerance will be powerfully condemned.

We are all members of an educational community, and as such, we must always, as part of the very core of what we do, face the challenges inherent in understanding and evaluating the ideas, assertions and arguments that come from other perspectives, other traditions, other disciplines and other beliefs, as we pursue our fundamental mission of searching for knowledge and truth. At the same time, we cannot afford to ignore the lessons drawn from the serious and informed study of present-day racism and intolerance and their deep connections with centuries-old traditions of suspicion and hatred. Much important scholarship is taking place at IU in these areas, and that scholarship has never been more important.

We must continue to insist that there is absolutely no room at IU for discrimination or harassment based on anyone’s actual or perceived race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin or political beliefs. We see our diversity as one of our cardinal virtues. We are extremely proud of our students of color and their achievements – students who are such a vital part of the cultural and historical fabric of our institution, but we will have failed them if we cannot provide to them campus environments where they feel safe, supported and respected. 

In the days and months ahead, we must strongly reaffirm Indiana University’s fundamental commitment to diversity and equity. We must condemn those who seek to divide us based on race, ethnicity, national origin and other areas. We must join together as a strong and vigorous educational community to be inclusive, supportive and welcoming to all. And we must always stand up for what is good and right.

#BlackLivesMatter is not just a cardboard sign. White educators and PD providers: you have a role in ending systemic oppression. Have conversations about race in your classroom. Embed Black history in culturally sensitive curricula. Work to abolish the school-to-prison pipeline --see the effects of policing on yr own students. Support students as they work thru racial trauma. Really ask yourself what "equity" means in your work. No matter whether you can do it in the streets, you can in the classroom. https://twitter.com/trussleaders…/status/1267333391604527104
Like many of you, I have followed the events in Minneapolis and the demonstrations in cities around the nation in response to the tragic death of George Floyd with a mixture of deep sadness, frustration, anger and disappointment. My heart goes out to all those feeling pain and anguish over this senseless death and to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives in the protests of recent days or who have suffered loss and damage in other ways. It is truly difficult to comprehend this tragedy and to find the right words to console the many people, especially members of the African-American community, who are hurting right now and hoping that justice will ultimately be served.  

To echo IU Vice President James Wimbush, who eloquently expressed his sadness and great concern earlier today on the reaction, in his home city of Indianapolis, to George Floyd’s death, the list is far too long of those black and brown individuals who have been subjected to disturbing violence in recent years. This list underscores the racism, bigotry, intolerance and hatred that too many members of our society, especially people of color, are forced to confront on a daily basis. It also draws our attention to the deeply disturbing growth in recent years here and around the world in the number of hate groups, as well as the immensely concerning increase in the number of acts of hatred and violence against minorities.

Here at IU, students of color now make up more than a quarter of the university’s total enrollment. Hence what is happening in Minneapolis and other cities around the nation serves as a powerful reminder that we have a special obligation to work to ensure that our campus communities are places where differences of all kinds, whether of race, ethnicity or belief, are respected, valued and protected, and where hatred, bigotry and intolerance will be powerfully condemned.

We are all members of an educational community, and as such, we must always, as part of the very core of what we do, face the challenges inherent in understanding and evaluating the ideas, assertions and arguments that come from other perspectives, other traditions, other disciplines and other beliefs, as we pursue our fundamental mission of searching for knowledge and truth. At the same time, we cannot afford to ignore the lessons drawn from the serious and informed study of present-day racism and intolerance and their deep connections with centuries-old traditions of suspicion and hatred. Much important scholarship is taking place at IU in these areas, and that scholarship has never been more important.

We must continue to insist that there is absolutely no room at IU for discrimination or harassment based on anyone’s actual or perceived race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin or political beliefs. We see our diversity as one of our cardinal virtues. We are extremely proud of our students of color and their achievements – students who are such a vital part of the cultural and historical fabric of our institution, but we will have failed them if we cannot provide to them campus environments where they feel safe, supported and respected. 

In the days and months ahead, we must strongly reaffirm Indiana University’s fundamental commitment to diversity and equity. We must condemn those who seek to divide us based on race, ethnicity, national origin and other areas. We must join together as a strong and vigorous educational community to be inclusive, supportive and welcoming to all. And we must always stand up for what is good and right.



Johns Hopkins University and Medicine shared a message Sunday in solidarity against racism. The message responds to the rise of anti-Asian discrimination during the coronavirus pandemic and the deaths of African Americans that have sparked recent protests in cities across the U.S., including in Baltimore.

Johns Hopkins released the following statement:

Dear Members of the Johns Hopkins Community,

In the past three months, across the U.S. and around the globe, we have experienced extraordinary challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In communities of which Johns Hopkins is a part—from Baltimore City, Washington, D.C., Prince George's, Howard, and Montgomery Counties to St. Petersburg, Florida, and many more—we have witnessed our African American, Latinx, Native American, and poverty-stricken communities disproportionately dying from COVID-19, while our Asian and Asian American communities have been targeted with vitriol because of the disease's origins. People have lost family members, and the economic impact of this pandemic has led to many people having lost their jobs.

This has been a tremendous burden for many to bear. The recent death of George Floyd in Minneapolis as well as the deaths of Breonna Taylor, a first responder in Louisville, Kentucky, shot in her own bed while sleeping; Ahmaud Arbery, shot while jogging near Brunswick, Georgia; and far too many others reinforce the brutal truth that the African American community still remains vulnerable to senseless violence, even during a pandemic. For those of us in Baltimore, these tragedies also call to mind the death of Freddie Gray while in police custody five years ago. And this moment serves as a reminder of the compounding effects on our communities.

Because we are all intricately connected by our common humanity, if one segment of our community is hurting, it adversely impacts all of us. This is not just an issue for African Americans; it is an issue that threatens the future for all Americans.

We hear the needs of the Johns Hopkins community to have an honest dialogue about these issues and develop steps to address them through our daily activities and relationships, scholarship and teaching, and health care delivery and leadership. We must acknowledge that these vulnerabilities to violence and health crises faced by black and brown communities are born out of continued racial disparities in education, employment, housing, and criminal justice. To that end, under the leadership of the JHM Office of Diversity and Inclusion and in collaboration with other groups across Johns Hopkins, we will host a Journeys in Healing symposium series, "The Language of the Unheard: A Virtual Town Hall on Racial Injustice," in early June. More details will follow once dates have been solidified.

We also recognize and acknowledge the anguish that these recent incidents are causing for our faculty, students, staff, trainees, and alumni across the Johns Hopkins family. We encourage you to access the many supportive services available. At JHM, these services include mySupport, Spiritual Care and Chaplaincy, the Office of Well-Being, the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, and the JHM Office of Diversity and Inclusion. University affiliates can reach out to mySupport, find student wellness resources at wellness.jhu.edu or on the Student Outreach and Support site, or contact the Office of Institutional Equity for assistance.

During this time of immense challenge, let us work together to be a light to facilitate education, healing, connection, support, and service to each other and to our community.


Open Letter to the Students of Johnson C. Smith University

The World Needs YOU Now More Than Ever 
In the midst of a pandemic that has affected nearly every continent on earth, that has exposed and laid bare the inequalities borne most heavily by the poor and underserved of our community; we now find this country in the midst of facing once again the harsh reality of the legacy of racism, the seeds of which were planted over 400 years ago on this continent. In the last several weeks we have witnessed Ahmaud Arbery's senseless killing while jogging in Georgia; black delivery men in an Oklahoma gated community being held against their will for failing to answer the questions of two white men who questioned the delivery men's right to have entered their enclave; a white female New York City investment banker call the police on a black man who merely asked that she follow the law and leash her dog while in Central Park; and most recently, the shocking death of George Floyd as a white police officer kneeled on his neck for over 8 minutes, literally two minutes after he had already gasped his last breath.

The cumulative effect of these events and similar events, which occurred in years past, has led to understandable frustrations that ask the question: When will this end? The insidious nature of racism suggests that it may not be soon, but it is my hope that you and your peers at institutions of higher education throughout this country, especially those attending HBCUs, will lead this country to a new understanding of its obligations to ensure that the inequality gap does not continue to expand and that we make certain all members of society have the opportunities to reach their full potential.

Two weeks ago, 70 HBCUs, including Johnson C. Smith University, participated in a nationwide commencement celebration. President Barack Obama was among the many people who offered words of wisdom to our graduates.  I am reminded of something he said in making an observation of the state of the world and the significance of the graduates being honored that day. To paraphrase, he said: "We need you now, more than ever!" I wholeheartedly agree with President Obama.  It is critical that your voices are heard; your perspectives are seen; and your experiences are acknowledged in helping to examine, explore and resolve many of the stresses that are threatening to rip the fabric of our society apart.

I know the events of the last few days may have you confused and wondering where is your place in the world.  I would amplify President Obama's call to you: We need you now, more than ever!  And we, the faculty, staff, administration and Trustees of JCSU stand ready, willing and able to prepare you to take on the issues of injustice and inequality facing this country and the world.

Stay safe! We are looking forward to the day when we can reconvene on campus as the unified, resilient and strong community that we are. 

Sincerely,

Clarence D. Armbrister signature

Clarence D. Armbrister, J.D.

President
As we work to reawaken our university community from our COVID-19 isolation, we also must contend with social injustice issues plaguing our country. At the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, around the country, we witnessed acts of prejudice toward those from China and other Asian countries. Now, we are witnessing protests over the killing of black and Latino individuals by law enforcement officers. This is clearly no time to be silent on issues of social justice.

A number of K-State faculty and staff have meaningfully engaged the Kansas higher education community in dialogue on these matters. We believe, unapologetically, that there is nothing to debate. Social injustice is alive and well and more often than not, finds its way to the doorsteps and lives of individuals in the most marginalized communities.

We recognize these acts of injustice may not have taken place on our campuses or in our communities, but they can still have a profound impact on our community members. Our students, faculty, staff and administrators are affected by these acts of injustice. In some cases, members of our community may think this could happen to them, their family members or their friends.

The Kansas State University Police Department is dedicated to our community and strives to earn our confidence and respect. We know this respect is hard-won and can be easily lost — it only takes one incident to erase years of goodwill. Our officers are highly professional and well trained in how to interact with our community members. We have confidence they endeavor to uphold our community values. In this time of strife, they also deserve our continued respect and support. 

At Kansas State University, we affirm the inherent dignity and value of every person and strive to maintain an atmosphere of justice based on respect for each other. We understand the impact these acts of social injustice have on marginalized communities and their allies. We stand with you and we ask our community members to demonstrate the empathy, sympathy and social responsibility that reflects the same accountability we expect of those entrusted to protect and serve.

Those who have been impacted by recent events are encouraged to contact Student Life or Counseling Services by calling 785-532-6927.

Social injustice has always been with us, but we must stand up for what's right and support those who feel threatened or marginalized.
We all have spent much of the last few days watching as the nation mourns the death of George Floyd. We join the nation in mourning. Our collective sorrow remembers Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery, two African Americans also killed this year. Our grief and pain also are tied to the reality that African Americans along with other marginalized communities are disproportionately impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Closer to home, two members of our beloved Golden Flashes community, state Sen. and Kent State Associate Professor of Political Science Vernon Sykes and state Rep. and Kent State alumna Emilia Strong Sykes, received threats related to their duties as elected state officials. Additionally, on May 3, an individual known to authorities for his anti-Semitic views was heard asking a store clerk in Stow the location of Kent State and made comments that could be perceived as threatening to the Jewish community. Fortunately, the individual did not make it to Kent and was arrested on another charge.

In recent statements by both Black United Students and the Undergraduate Student Government, these issues are on the minds of many of our student leaders who are actively working toward a vision of equity and justice that will shape a better future.

It is the hope and aspirations of our students, combined with the history and lessons of May 4, 1970, that remind us of the need to study the root causes of current troubles as we search for a better future. We are called to learn more about the structures, histories, assumptions, prejudices and cultures that lead to disparate outcomes in healthcare, in the judicial system and in myriad aspects of our lives. We are thankful that our Kent State historians, sociologists, public health professors, Peace and Conflict Studies and Pan-African Studies professors, and many, many others are participating in these national conversations. Understanding and improving the world we inhabit are central to what we do at Kent State, as is our commitment to kindness and respect in all that we do.

As we work to reopen our university safely, let us remember that many of our community members live daily with injustices that inflict pain, trauma and a host of other emotions. As Golden Flashes, we ask that you recommit yourselves to the promotion of equity and justice and continue to lift up our institutional values of respect, kindness and purpose. We appreciate each of you and look forward to continuing the work of making our community equitable and inclusive for all.





The recent tragic events in Minneapolis around the death of George Floyd, as well as other incidents of violence inflicted upon African Americans in our country, have shocked the nation and deeply affected all of us.  Our deepest sympathies go out to the family and loved ones of Mr. Floyd and the families and friends of those who have lost their lives to other horrific and senseless acts of racism. These events further demonstrate our need to stand together as a community and take ownership of our obligation to fight against the systemic discrimination and racial disparities that continue to plague our nation.

As members of the Lehigh University community, we must affirm our values—equality, peaceful dialogue, the free exchange of ideas and the encouragement of respectful debate—and support the condemnation and repudiation of systemic discrimination, hate and intolerance and their violent manifestation. We must continue to affirm our shared responsibility to fight ignorance, model inclusive excellence and embrace the power of diversity.

It is our shared responsibility to work together to create a society in which discrimination and racism are no longer tolerated.  We must play an active role in understanding, candidly engaging in dialogue, and solving the problems of racial inequity and injustice.

While I would not presume to speak about the experience of African Americans, I know African Americans in the Lehigh community are feeling anger, outrage and fear in the wake of the violence we have witnessed. I once again ask that we as a Lehigh community recommit to our shared values; reject hatred, bigotry and intolerance; and reflect on what each of us can do, large or small, and how we can come together with hope and determination to create a more just, actively inclusive and equitable community.




I recall, back in early January, thinking about the powerful imagery of the year 2020 and imagining a world where we would have a better and more acute vision of our collective humanity. 

Now, nearly midway through this year, the quest appears even more pressing. Collectively, we are facing the challenge of a lifetime. In the midst of a pandemic, we watch as people across North America mobilize against injustice and racism, provoked in particular by the tragic death of George Floyd one week ago.

Feelings of sadness, anger, fear, and a sense of helplessness are shared by all of us. I recognize that many members of our community, especially our Black students, faculty, and staff, may need support at this time; resources are listed below. 

Yet, in this turbulent moment, it remains critical to remember that our strength lies in our unity and in living the principles that McGill embraces in its mission. Among those principles are equity and inclusiveness. Living these principles means going beyond publicly denouncing racism and other forms of social injustice. We are also called to consider how universities have the responsibility, to confront and work to flatten social inequities through dialogue and the advancement of knowledge. Every one of us shares in this responsibility as we live through a moment in history that calls for leadership and action anchored to knowledge, compassion, and courage.

We are living during a time of profound hurt, anger, frustration and, for many, a time of deep disappointment and despair regarding the recent high-profile violent events targeting Black Americans – the most recent being the inescapable images of George Floyd, dying while a police officer knelt on his neck.   

The shocking events in Minnesota, as well as too many other similar killings in communities including Ahmaud Arbery, killed while jogging, and Breonna Taylor, who was shot to death by police raiding her home, bring much pain, anger and trauma to many members of our community, and we cannot let them go unnoticed or unacknowledged. They are incomprehensible. Unjust. Inhumane.  

First and foremost, as leaders of this university, it is important that we speak out against these atrocities. To our Black students, faculty and staff, know that we both stand with you. The university stands with you.

It is important, as Spartans, that we collectively understand and acknowledge the impact of racism and that the Black community is under attack in many ways right now. In addition to the recent deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and so many others who are targeted because of their skin color, we have a global health pandemic that is powerfully and incontrovertibly revealing the inequities in our society.  

All of this is taking a heavy emotional toll on many of our friends, families and fellow Spartans. These events remind us that we have a responsibility to engage in the work necessary to understand we live in a diverse world and a diverse campus community, and by virtue of this we also have a responsibility to each other to respond to these injustices – acknowledge them, empathize with one another and accept each other.

We are committed to building an inclusive environment here at MSU, one that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. However, this commitment must be manifested in ways that extend well beyond words. We hope you will do what you can as students, faculty and staff at MSU to fight racism, disrupt injustice and actively support each other. The next several months will test our resolve, our community and our nation. 
****tweeted image**



During the past weeks and months, disturbing, racially charged situations and tragic deaths have occurred across the U.S. – including Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, Christian Cooper and most recently George Floyd. We are now witnessing protests in cities across the U.S., some of which have been marked by violence.

On our own campus we also recently experienced the impact of racially charged posts on social media made by incoming freshmen.

One student posted a disturbing video to My Story on Snapchat. A person in the My Story group re-posted it on Twitter. Perhaps the intent of the video can be debated. Its impact cannot.

Another student used an offensive racial slur while engaging in a social media exchange with a black student from her high school.

Many of you have reached out to share the hurt, anger and disbelief you experienced upon watching the video. It demonstrates a disturbing lack of empathy and respect for the death of Mr. Floyd, his family and others who have suffered similarly while in police custody.

Many others have expressed anger and disbelief at the nature and tone of the hurtful social media posts.

After seeing these social media posts and viewing the video, I, too, was horrified. My first impulse was to rescind the offer of admission to these students. But then I was reminded of a couple of things.

Missouri State University is a public university with a public affairs mission.

As a public university we are legally required to uphold the principles of free speech embodied in the First Amendment to the Constitution. The video – as hurtful, insensitive and offensive as it is – is protected by the First Amendment, as was the language in the social media posts.

I will admit that it was tempting to ignore the First Amendment in this case. Doing so would violate our legal obligations but, more importantly, it would effectively prevent the university from accomplishing its mission.

Missouri State has a responsibility to educate students on the three pillars of our public affairs mission – ethical leadership, community engagement and cultural competence. The video and the social media posts clearly reveal that these students – and, let’s be honest, many of us – are in desperate need of education, training and experiences that will help us develop cultural consciousness as well as cultural competence.

We cannot expect or require that students come to us fully formed, possessing all of the skills and characteristics that exemplify Citizen Scholars. It is our job and our duty to help them develop these traits through education and exposure.

Recognizing the impact of the video and the social media post, these students have chosen to withdraw from the university. We had planned to allow them to join our campus community in the fall, knowing that this decision would be ridiculed, questioned and second-guessed. But it was under the conditions that they participate in additional education and training to assist them in both understanding the impact of their actions and in developing cultural competence.

Social media is rife with opportunities to damage reputations or hurt thousands of people with one statement or one video. It is important that we are all mindful of its impact and if we choose to participate, to think very carefully before we post.

As one might expect, these students have been bombarded with hate, ridicule and even death threats. Both are 18 years old. While they displayed poor judgement, they don’t deserve to have their lives threatened.

As a university, we are acutely aware that many of our incoming students of all backgrounds may have made poor choices when posting on social media when they were teenagers. These are formative years when people change and grow. As a university, we are not going to police everyone’s social media accounts. We legally cannot and, in my opinion, should not bar a student from entry for offensive comments posted as an adolescent. I believe in grace, redemption and the probability that a college education can change people for the better. It did me.

That being said, we will continue to educate our students on the three pillars of our public affairs mission. And given the current environment, we will continue to give special emphasis to the awareness, knowledge and skills required to be culturally competent in a global society and world.

Thank you for all you do for Missouri State.
We have no tolerance for discrimination or acts of hate in our community. No matter where you come from, no matter your race, gender, identity, preference or perspective, we all come together to learn, and everyone deserves to be treated with respect and to thrive.
At MIT, Commencement is the most beautiful day of the year. Even in this strange pandemic moment, this afternoon’s graduation celebration will offer us all the opportunity to celebrate the wonderful spirit, character and accomplishments of our newest graduates.

That joy is and should be perfect and untouchable.

But I write with a heart that is also full of anguish – because it is impossible to face this particular day without an overwhelming sense of concern for our nation.

The death of George Floyd and the events unfolding in Minneapolis are deeply disturbing in themselves. And of course, they come on the heels of highly charged incidents, from Georgia to New York, that highlight yet again the tragic persistence of racism and systemic injustice in the United States.

I know that the pain of these events is especially intense for certain members of our community, beginning with those who are African American and of African descent, though certainly not ending there. And I know that, in this time of tension around the pandemic and rising strains in US-China relations, others in our community are also suffering distinctive forms of harassment and discrimination.

I imagine that you may share my urgent desire to help, while feeling an awful powerlessness to do so. At this moment, let’s do what we can. I believe a place to begin is by cherishing and seeking to strengthen our dear MIT community. Imperfect, certainly. But a community with an essential commitment to facing hard facts, thoughtfully striving to correct our errors – and working together to address humanity’s greatest challenges. A community where we aspire always to treat one another with sympathy, humility, decency, respect and kindness.

Let us treasure and care for that community – and let us work to make it better.

In the days and months to come, I would like us to find meaningful ways to come together to work on these challenges, for ourselves and for our society. I have asked John Dozier, our Institute Community and Equity Officer, to guide us in this effort. You may reach him directly at jdozier@mit.edu.

For now: I take hope in turning my thoughts to the new graduates we share with the world this afternoon. Today is our beloved Commencement day, a day when we honor the achievements of our graduating students and charge them with helping to heal the world. That charge will be all the more meaningful now, grounded in the very present struggles for our nation and for the world.

With great love and concern for our community and our nation,
There are events in our days that define our lives as well as our national consequence. We are witnessing one of such moments of definition as individuals and as a nation.

Just starting to emerge from the disorienting experiences provoked by a debilitating pandemic, last week we learned about the tragedy of George Floyd, an African American man who died lying on a street in Minneapolis, while pleading for his life. This past Sunday in Bozeman, community leaders, including MSU students, thoughtfully organized a peaceful demonstration that brought together thousands in support of Black Americans and all people of color, while committing to take on the challenge of dismantling racism, seeking justice and promoting peace. I am proud to see our community members making their voices heard in peaceful, productive ways in an effort towards positive change.

At this historic hour, we stand with our students, faculty and staff of color and with every individual - irrespective of race, ethnicity and gender - who is feeling fear, anger and pain because of these events. You are not alone and we see you.

Our heart also goes out to people who are victimized and caught in the confusion created by others who want to take advantage of this situation to sow discord and destruction. We cannot condone violence in any of its senseless expressions.

We have a responsibility - and the opportunity - to work together to address the injustice and inequality that our founding as a public university sought to eradicate. As the land-grant institution of the state, your Montana State University is committed to maximizing access and success for everyone, to finding lasting solutions, and to build a better world and a more just society.

In these times more than ever, we see the value and urgency of the power of education, diversity and community. In the coming weeks, there will be opportunities for MSU students, faculty, staff and neighbors to participate in conversation and action, as part of our mission to engage with the communities we serve. As one of our institutional documents proudly proclaims, "We believe that excellence at Montana State University is best achieved through a culture of intellectual and personal growth that is diverse and inclusive."

Let us come together as one people to create an environment in which our differences are the source of our strength. 



For as long as I live, I will never forget the horrific video of Mr. George Floyd being woefully asphyxiated by the knee of a morally bankrupt officer of the law. For what seemed like an eternity, we witnessed Mr. Floyd's very breath being extinguished from him. His cries of "mama" and "I can't breathe" fell empty on the ears of the callous and cold-hearted officer. I have not been able to sleep restfully since witnessing this tragedy.

I know our community is hurting, yet again, at the sight of another unarmed young Black man die at the hands of those sworn to protect and serve. I know our blood is boiling and our emotions are high. Believe me, I truly understand! As the father of a young Black man, and as an uncle and a great uncle to scores of other young men, I have great empathy for the families who endure such atrocities of civil and human rights. No family should ever have to experience the loss of a loved one in such a brutal and overtly racist manner.

Even in light of what I've said, I say to all of us, let's stand up for the value of our lives, but if you feel compelled to protest this great injustice, please do so peacefully and with the best interest of your fellow man and woman. We must triple our efforts to rid our society of racism—which, seemingly, in the modern era, has resulted in a practice that Black male lives, in particular, are dispensable.

Go forward and voice your collective stand against injustice with vigor, passion and solidarity in the true Morgan tradition, but as you do, please do so peacefully.

United in equality and humanity,


Research and data clearly show that structural racism and the experience of day-to-day racism result in significant and compounding negative health impacts for people of color. We will highlight these data over the next few weeks and hope you will follow along.
Racism and associated health impacts.



The death of George Floyd has brought us to a point of inflection throughout our country, and it has done so for multiple reasons.

Mr. Floyd's death was captured on video, so we have been forced to see a truth we would rather not believe. That video is both heartbreaking and infuriating. No decent person could watch the extermination of a helpless human being in such a callous manner without experiencing feelings of true anger and despair.

We all have seen this story before, and far too frequently. We have watched as many, particularly men of color, have lost their lives to violence and hate. The circumstances may change, as may the individuals involved, but the result is devastatingly consistent.

Yes, we all have tried to say the right things after these incidents--we have expressed our disgust as well as our grief and sympathy.

Have we DONE the right things, though?

Have we challenged racism and ignorance, even when we see it expressed subtly in "polite company" by those we would consider to be colleagues or friends? Have we honestly questioned and explored our own biases and how they shape our behaviors? Have we worked hard enough to create diversity, and with it greater understanding of and appreciation for one another, throughout our networks and organizations? Have we been guilty of, despite our best intentions, moving on to the next crisis of the day and failing in our commitment to make positive change?

I have struggled to find the right words at this time, and to posit some answers for how we sustain the necessary systemic change. Maybe the questions I posed in the previous paragraph must be examined with unvarnished candor, thereby affecting our individual actions, our willingness to speak out and, as a result, affect those around us while strengthening our efforts to achieve systemic change.

I am extremely proud to be part of a richly diverse university community that is strengthened by its diversity. I believe NJIT serves as an example of what most communities should strive for, but that does not mean we can pretend what we have seen is not our problem. It is our problem, and we have a responsibility that we cannot shirk. Please join me in committing to not let this moment pass without becoming better as individuals and as a community. I welcome your thoughts and suggestions for how to accomplish those goals. My thoughts and prayers are with the family of George Floyd and all those who feel angry, sad, and powerless at this time. We must work hard to resolve the issue of racism thoughtfully, peacefully, and with accountability for those who disregard the value of life of our fellow Americans.

Once again, we find ourselves filled with sorrow, outrage, and grief over a loss of yet another Black person's life at the hands of law enforcement that was tragic, unjust, and avoidable. There have been numerous appalling events over the last few weeks during an already difficult time—a pandemic. While it is hard to find words to describe the shocking ghastliness of the videoed last minutes of George Floyd's life on a Minneapolis street, with a police officer's knee on his neck, the poignant and unheeded pleas of Mr. Floyd and the bystanders—as in previous occurrences—remain haunting. His cries tear at our hearts, just as the knowledge that events like this seem to happen again and again and again rips not only at our conscience but at what we all consider to be a just and humane society.

This is one of those moments when reason and knowledge and discourse, which university citizens prize so highly, often doesn't seem like enough of a response. How could they be, when these deaths keep recurring, and when racism continues to manifest itself, even in our own community?

But reason, discourse, study, evidence, analysis—those are our tools, and events like the killing of George Floyd should not cause us to set them aside, but instead to redouble our exertions to use them in the cause of addressing racism, xenophobia, violence, and hate to underscore social justice, human dignity, inclusion, and peace. Many of our scholars already study the issues so evident in the Floyd video—inequality, race, and the inequities of the criminal justice system. Over the summer, I will be examining—and I am sure this will be true for many of you, too—how else our University might contribute to the goal of creating more just practices and systems. In the meantime, on behalf of the NYU community, I offer our University's sympathies to the family and loved ones of George Floyd, with whom we grieve for his lost life and the unspeakable suffering to which he was subjected, as well all of those impacted by this and the other terrible recent events. To deal with these types of issues while simultaneously navigating a pandemic that is giving rise to differential impacts on communities of color, and in particular, those of African descent, is especially oppressive.

Finally, my heart goes out to those in our own community who have been feeling overwhelmed by grief or apprehension because of fear for their own safety, their families, and loved ones. I want to remind you that NYU stands with you, and we have resources to help: for students at the Wellness Exchange, and for employees through Carebridge. And please also note that the Office of Global Inclusion (OGI) continues to plan events for the community.



As I write this, cities across the country, including here in Greensboro and around North Carolina, are ablaze in unrest and souls in anguish over George Floyd’s death at the hands of Minneapolis police. It was a scene, unfortunately, like many we have seen before, in which the life of an African American man is extinguished in a confrontation that, at minimum, could have been deescalated; at best, avoided entirely. It leaves millions of us around our nation with a reasonable and just question: Why? In the absence of an acceptable answer – and to be clear, there is no acceptable answer – we are left with heavy hearts, sick with grief, inflamed with anger.   

I join the Aggie family in grieving the loss of George Floyd and in voicing a commitment that his death cannot be allowed to pass in vain. As the leader of the nation’s largest historically black university, an institution borne of the bigotry connected by a straight line of history to Floyd’s death, I appreciate the weight of this moment on the shoulders of our students, their families, our faculty and staff and our alumni. As we collectively bear witness to this injustice, we do so from the vantage point of our university, and the tools and knowledge we can bring to bear in this moment of pain and despair. What can our faculty and students do to bring understanding and context to this incident? What measures of change and solution can their scholarly work make clear? What light can they shed on intersecting dynamics of race, the criminal justice system, history, economics and the human psyche that will illuminate truth for a troubled nation? 

In the weeks and months ahead, I pray that the moral imperative of this moment will not fade, and that we will rise to the challenges that our leadership has prepared us to meet. If the aftermath of George Floyd’s death is, indeed, not to be mere protest but a predicate for change in which minds, hearts, policies and practices are forever altered, it will only do so if it is nourished by knowledge and truth. Let us commit ourselves collectively to surfacing those invaluable ingredients of change. 

For now, I encourage all of us to avail ourselves of the community and family ties that bind us at A&T. Lean on one another for comfort, and don’t be afraid to reach out if you are struggling. For our students, additional help is available through Counseling Services at 336-334-7727, Monday through Friday, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. For faculty and staff, the university’s Employee Assistance Program services provider, ComPsych Guidance Resources, is here for you at 866-511-3373, password: NCAT. This service is confidential and free of charge to you as an employee.
I write today as a leader of one of the nation's Historically Black Colleges and Universities. First, I would like to express my deep condolences to the family of Mr. George Floyd who was killed by Minneapolis, Minnesota, police officers on May 25, 2020. On behalf of North Carolina Central University, I join citizens from across our nation and around the world in expressing deep concern about this blatant tragedy and condemning its perpetrators. This incident highlighted how equality and justice are not fairly dispensed in our country. 

We are all incensed by the disturbing images of African Americans whose lives have been taken violently across the nation. As we grieve and try to make sense of these tragic deaths and incidents, we also seek reassurance that justice will be served swiftly and those who are responsible will be held accountable. 

As a community of students, faculty, and staff, we must together call for the restructuring of our judicial system to create one that dispenses justice equally, regardless of racial, ethnic or sexual orientation. As an institution that was founded by a visionary and fearless leader, this university represents the values that Dr. James E. Shepard exhibited with incredible fortitude and strength as he built a progressive learning institution for African Americans in Durham in the early 1900s. Intent on his mission despite the history of oppression that African Americans and other communities of color had faced, Dr. Shepard demonstrated that no obstacle is insurmountable.

The events surrounding us today represent another moment in history when silence and status-quo are no longer acceptable. I ask you to appeal to our local, state and federal leaders to address the ongoing pattern of racial injustice and disparities that exist within our society and embrace public policies that can truly achieve this country's ideals.

I am counting on each of you, as Eagles, to lead us in seeking a more perfect union. As Dr. King said in his historic "I Have a Dream"speech in 1963, we all seek to live in a nation where we will not be judged by the color of our skin, but by the content of our character.  NCCU continues to uphold and nurture an environment of diversity and inclusion that celebrates and respects all voices and opinions.

Students, faculty and staff: In this painful time, I urge you to take advantage of the resources made available in your university community. I encourage students to contact the Counseling Center if you need assistance dealing with this very difficult moment. Faculty and staff may access the Employee Assistance Program to learn about assistance options available. 

Together, let us keep on pursuing a peaceful quest for equality and justice in the days, weeks and months to come. I hope each of you remain secure in knowing the NCCU community is standing by your side. 
he inhumane and unjust circumstances surrounding the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis on Monday have left many in our community, myself included, feeling deep sorrow, frustration and understandable anger. Over the weekend we’ve witnessed this grief and anger displayed in many ways, including a peaceful protest in Raleigh, and unfortunately, separate acts of vandalism against many of our local businesses that have done so much to help build a culture of inclusion in our community.

As a higher education community dedicated to thought and action that improves the world around us, we condemn acts of racism, discrimination and violence.

In the course of the past few months, we have again witnessed more instances of violence against people of color – including Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery – that serve as a continual and painful reminder that unjust racial disparities continue in our country. How could we not be sorrowful, and angry, at this moment? It is past time for drastically needed and rightful change.

We must acknowledge that a person’s race is still too often used to determine how they will be treated in almost every aspect of American life. And as a leading U.S. institution of higher education, we are committed to our critical role in helping right the injustices of racism and discrimination. I believe higher education can and should be a positive influence on lives well beyond academic instruction, and that we need to help lead the way forward toward equality, equity and justice for all in our country.

As the state’s largest public university, we have the responsibility to educate ourselves and those who pass through our doors to overcome ignorance, unite against intolerance, model inclusivity, and advance the dignity and power of diversity.

The events of this week must serve as a catalyst for all in our community to be unequivocally dedicated to building an inclusive environment that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. I remain committed to that goal, and expect you will do all you can in your role at NC State – as a student, faculty or staff member, or friend of the university – to eliminate racism and all other forms of discrimination.

As members of this intellectual community, I strongly encourage all of us to fight for positive change powerfully, thoughtfully and peacefully. I also encourage each of us to embrace with humility that we all have more to learn as it relates to understanding our own places of prejudice and how we can strive to overcome how these impact our own actions.

As Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity Sheri Schwab wrote in her recent Statement Regarding the Events in Minneapolis (if you haven’t yet read it, please do), Provost Arden and I have charged a task force to ensure advancing diversity, inclusion and well-being is inherent and represented in every aspect of NC State’s next 10-year Strategic Plan. We’ll be finalizing the plan over the summer, and encourage our community to provide your feedback via the Strategic Plan Task Force website.

Over the summer, I’ll also be working with Vice Provost Schwab and other university leaders to ensure opportunities for vital community discussions and feedback opportunities related to diversity and inclusion on campus when we return in the fall, in whatever format those need to take in the new COVID-19 environment.

In the meantime, please keep up with important diversity-and-inclusion-related news, events, announcements and opportunities to get involved by subscribing to the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity’s (OIED) Diversity Digest. Also, review the Diversity web portal from the university’s homepage to find education and training resources, diversity and inclusion programs, details about NC State’s Campus Community Centers, an events calendar and more important information.

NC State’s greatest strength is its people – all its people – and their diversity of thought and experience. It is on each and all of us to fight injustice and advance a truly diverse, inclusive and supportive environment for all on our campus and well beyond. That’s what it means to be part of this Wolfpack.
As a result of the events of the past week, we are writing to express support for all of us who may be struggling to understand and react and in particular our students and colleagues of color who may be experiencing pain and anguish.

North Dakota State University has clearly stated values in denouncing discrimination, harassment and retaliation as integral to our success as a student-focused, land-grant, research university.

What that means in difficult times is we support one another any way we can. We listen, we work to understand, we actively work together toward a more inclusive and accepting community for all of us.

More formally, we remind our community of support available through the following sources:

• Confidential resources to support students are available through the NDSU Counseling Center.

• Educational and reporting resources related to equity and inclusion may be found here.

• Confidential resources to support faculty and staff are available through the Employee Assistance Program.

• The University Ombuds is a resource for faculty members, graduate students and academic staff.

We also encourage us all to continue efforts to increase our understanding by reading, asking questions, listening and welcoming one another. 
We have heard the chorus of raised voices demanding that we make real, at last, the promise of American democracy for the many millions of African-Americans who have given so much to build it. We feel, in the words of Dr. King, "The fierce urgency of now."

On Monday, June 8, we will suspend all classes and close all administrative and academic offices on all of our campuses. We will use this time and space—exactly two weeks after the unjust and inhumane killing of George Floyd—to hold a Day for Reflection, Engagement, and Action. We will join together in unity with those all around the world who are grieving and angry over persistent injustice toward African-American citizens.

We will begin with an online vigil at 11 a.m. to remember George Floyd and all African-Americans whose lives have been brutally taken from us. At 2 p.m., we will feature a conversation with Professor of Law Margaret Burnham, founder of Northeastern's Civil Rights and Restorative Justice Project, on ways we can move forward together.

In the days that follow, we will commence a series of virtual town halls on race and justice led by Deans Uta Poiger and James Hackney, co-chairs of the Presidential Council on Diversity and Inclusion.

On June 19, we will gather on all of our campuses for a Day of Solidarity. June 19, often known as "Juneteenth"or Freedom Day, is traditionally a day to celebrate the emancipation of slaves in the U.S. We will gather together to listen, to speak, and to engage one another in advancing the cause of justice.

These events are just the beginning of a series of specific actions that Northeastern will undertake.

It is important to note that we won't always get it right. We won't always find the right words. But we must work together to address the pain. We must find the solidarity that we as a society—and as fellow human beings—so desperately need right now.

There is no time to waste. Working together in mutual trust and understanding to achieve the change that we seek, let us begin.
I felt outrage and disgust watching video of the fatal mistreatment of George Floyd in Minneapolis. 

And I was further sickened this morning when our recent graduate, CNN's Omar Jimenez, was arrested live on television for, as Medill Dean Charles Whitaker described it, "the sin of doing journalism."

Our Northwestern community grieves for the many ways in which our society tolerates and facilitates injustices, demonstrated so vividly in these and other recent events. 

Dean Whitaker poignantly expressed his personal pain as a father of African-American sons. Many of the rest of us can barely begin to imagine the personal toll that racism takes on marginalized communities every single day. But we can all increase our resolve to create a Northwestern community, and a world, where all people are accorded the dignity and the safety they deserve. 

Our nation must do better, and I pledge that I, and our university, will work toward that end.
The recent killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and now George Floyd are heartbreaking tragedies that further show the injustice and systemic racism the Black community faces every day. It's been hard to find the right words for this message because I keep imagining the images and videos capturing these horrific acts and the Black community struggling to be heard when crying out for justice and peace. My heart goes out to the families, friends, and those directly or indirectly impacted.

Blatant acts of racism, hatred, and police brutality should not be normalized again.  Unfortunately, we have been here before.  Many of us remember the recent names… Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice, Eric Garner, Sandra Bland, Atatiana Jefferson, Botham Jean, Philando Castile, and now Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and George Floyd, all victims of a shameful legacy of hate.  We must continue to say the names of those lost to senseless acts of violence and racism.

"I can't breathe"were some of the last words from Mr. Floyd before his life was taken right before our eyes. They were also the last words of Eric Garner in 2014. It is suffocating to exist in a space where Black lives are considered disposable with little hope for real systematic change. I pose this question: "what are we going to do to advocate for equity for our communities and nation?"
 
As a Society within this society, we want to see justice.  We want it in the cases dominating the news but also for the 99.9% of cases most of us will never hear about.  We expect justice to be dispatched swiftly and equitably, according to the law, and not influenced by income, race, or connections.  However, we would also like to see that equality extended to our educational institutions – at every level and to companies and industries solving our countries' most complex problems.  We should not be marginalized; as descendants of those who helped build this nation, we seek full participation in all aspects of society with a fair chance to help make America a more perfect union. 

Of course, we recognize that radical change requires allies; Black people do not have the numbers or resources to bring about systemic change alone.  So, we call on those who believe everyone deserves a chance to fulfill their potential to provide opportunities, to open doorways and create pathways for those who did not have access to the resources that produce advantages.  Finally, we ask those who believe in the mission of the National Society of Black Engineers to invest in this cause so our members can thrive and continue to be agents of positive change.

Now is the time for the conversation.  Now is the time for understanding.  This is the perfect time in history for our country to embrace national ideals for all of its citizens.  We implore righteous people to honor and protect our inalienable rights to liberty, opportunity, and equality. 

We cannot remain silent at a time like this.  We must call for political action to invoke social change, to end police brutality, and dismantle systemic racism.  We are not powerless. Nelson Mandela put it best when he said, "education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world."We encourage all NSBE members and allies to take action and let your voices be heard... mentor, vote, make calls, write, participate, post, march… be the example.

NSBE is compiling a list of health, grief, and wellness support resources to assist our members in coping with all of these troubling events; that information will be provided in another official communication.  Moreover, we are developing a team of leaders to create ways for our organization to use its platform to speak out on social justice issues.  Above all, I ask you to hold on to hope, to seek refuge in faith, and the knowledge that we will get to the other side of this bleak moment.  Together, we will overcome this adversity, as we have in the past, and continue our march toward a more just society. 

Continue to encourage one another, support one another, listen to one another, and love one another. In closing, NSBE loves you, and your life matters!   


We typically share with you a weekend email update on various COVID-19 related issues. We will send the update on Monday this week. 

I ask instead that we use this weekend to reflect on the horrific events of the past week and specifically on what we as individuals, as a community, and as a nation must do to prevent crimes like this from happening again. What can we do to make things different? 

George Floyd suffered a horrendous and completely unnecessary death. His killing, and those that have come before, demand that we create a different future. This can and must be our task. 

This time, we must act. That starts with dialogue, which I have renewed with key community partners. We must reaffirm our commitment as Buckeyes to our university values of inclusion, diversity and tolerance.

Today, let us also act by reflecting on what’s in our hearts and directing our activities to collaborative efforts to produce lasting change. 
Like many of you, we are deeply saddened by the acts of brutality our country has witnessed in recent days. These images and stories are painful reminders of the persistence of racial tension in our country, and they reaffirm the urgent need to stand in solidarity with our community members of color, especially African American community members.

As Directors within OHIO’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion, we understand the limitations of a statement like this at a time when many in our community are hurting so deeply. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to pose extraordinary challenges, made even more challenging by the images of violence we see flashing across our screens.

At the same time, we know that some of you may derive great benefit from campus resources to support your psychological and emotional well-being. For this reason, we encourage all of you to seek out campus resources that can provide support and encouragement to Ohio University community members. Some of them are highlighted below:

Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS)

CPS provides mental health and adjustment services to students and also consultation to faculty, administrators and parents who support our students.

Psychiatry and individual counseling through face-to-face video conferencing or audio phone therapy are just some of the services available to students through CPS.

Staff members in CPS also make referrals to a wide range of support services both on and off campus. Students may contact CPS at any time by calling 740-593-1616. If calling after hours, press 1 to be connected to a counselor. You can also visit their website at www.ohio.edu/student-affairs/counseling.

IMPACT Student Support Meetings

OHIO students are encouraged to email diversity@ohio.edu to express interest in attending an IMPACT meeting, which is a support group convened for any Ohio University student who wishes to discuss special issues that may be impacting our community of students.

These meetings are facilitated by Dr. Kristyn Neckles, psychologist and embedded clinician for our Division of Diversity and Inclusion, on a by-request basis. 

Employee Assistance Program

Ohio University's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and Work/Life program is offered through Impact Behavioral Healthcare Services.

The EAP is available to all Ohio University employees and their family members.

Visit Impact Employee Assistance (opens in a new window)(opens in a new window)and enter 'ohiouniversity' as the username under the heading Member Login to access informational materials and resources.

Program features include confidential 24/7 live professional assistance (1-800-227-6007) and more.

OHIO’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion remains unwavering in our commitment to offering support and safety so all Bobcats in their diverse identities and experiences can find support for their concerns, worries, and fears.

All staff members in our offices — the LGBT Center, the Multicultural Center, the Office of Multicultural Student Access and Retention/OMSAR, and the Women’s Center — stand ready to offer whatever support we can to our OHIO community as we work together to create a world that is safe, equitable, and compassionate for all. We are here for you - please do not hesitate to reach out to us if we can be of assistance.

In times like these, community is the strongest antidote we have to combat isolation and loneliness. You are not alone!
We are disheartened by the racial injustices in our country & hope justice is swiftly served for the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery & victims of senseless violence. To our Black students/employees—we see you, we hear you, we support you. Your voices matter.
I know our Monarch community joins me in expressing our collective outrage regarding the horrific and senseless killing of George Floyd. We send prayers to his family as well as our hopes that his tragic death will create not just a nationwide conversation, but a commitment from every member of American society to say "No more" to what we observed in Minneapolis or, before that, in Georgia. As a diverse and inclusive campus, we must continue to do our collective best to demonstrate for the world that at Old Dominion University we strive to learn from differences, leading to a greater understanding of one another.

 The primary role of police in America is to provide for the safety of all people by protecting them from criminals and to hold each of us accountable to the law. We expect police to apprehend criminals and work within the legal system to make certain that justice is blind and all are held accountable to the law.

We all have watched in horror videos being replayed over the past week showing the life of George Floyd brutally taken from him by a white police officer in Minneapolis, Minn., while three other officers sworn to uphold the law looked on in indifference. The officer who killed Mr. Floyd was arrested and all four of the officers were fired, but the other three officers simply went home.

Sadly, this horrific event is just the latest in a seemingly endless stream of acts of violence against Black and other people of color by police who are sworn to protect and serve them.

Mr. Floyd’s death comes on the heels of the Feb. 23 fatal shooting of Ahmaud Arbery by armed white residents as he was out jogging in a neighborhood in South Georgia. As well, the March 13 death of Breonna Taylor, who was shot in her Louisville, Ky. home by police. And the reporting to police last week of an African American man threatening a white woman when in fact he was in New York City’s Central Park to watch birds and simply asked her to keep her dog on a leash.

We continually hear speeches and testimonials about how unacceptable and terrible these acts are and how our leaders feel the pain of the Black community. Yet, nothing changes much and we act as if these horrific events are singular or isolated events. But these are not one-offs. They are the product of a failed justice system that perpetuates racism in America and too often a culture of silence within police forces that protects incompetent and hateful people simply because they wear the badge. We are condemned to relive these tragedies unless we make real change a priority throughout this country.

America must be a land of personal and equal freedom, safety and opportunity for all people. And to be certain, the police exist to protect us from predators and not to control us. That attitude should be universal in this country regardless of who we are, where we live or what we look like.

But how can we expect America and all people who live here — including communities of color — to thrive in the midst of such violence and injustice? How many times must we write the same messages expressing our outrage and hurt, sharing our thoughts and prayers for those harmed, and pleading for an end to injustice? How many acts of discrimination, injury and death must occur before our country confronts the realities of the lived experiences of people of color in our society? All of this must stop and that requires action not speeches.

Policing is a local function, but our system of policing requires systematic change across the country. On Monday, I will write the National Governors Association and urge the association and other groups to develop rules, training programs and disciplinary codes for appropriate policing to be enforced throughout America and for unions to step up and support the justice system in weeding out bad officers. Most police are good, dedicated, under-paid and hard working men and women, who risk their lives every day for the well-being of all people. They deserve our thanks and respect and they should not be subject to public scorn because we are incapable of holding some police accountable to the laws of our country and communities simply because they wear a badge.  

As a university community, we must join together to ensure that all members of the OSU community — students, faculty, staff and visitors — not only feel welcomed and safe, but experience our community as a place to thrive. Each and every member of our community must know they are valued, that they belong here, and that we celebrate the rich diversity that they bring to Oregon State University. We should not tolerate anything less. 

Our new police chief, Edgar Rodriguez understands that police must be a community partner that provide a sense of safety in the university and broader community.  As we hire officers for our police force, the Office of Institutional Diversity will continue to provide training to OSU public safety officers on implicit bias, foundations of power, privilege and oppression to ensure that our public safety practices are congruent with OSU’s values regarding inclusivity and opposing oppression. University leaders also will to seek to achieve agreements with police agencies in communities where OSU operates so that we may mutually advance inclusive justice for all people. 

The novel coronavirus pandemic has made all of us look at the inequities in our society. We call people essential workers and yet we systematically pay them less than living wages and deny them critical health care and quality education for themselves and their children, and we act surprised that they are disproportionately vulnerable to death from the COVID-19 pandemic because of pre-existing conditions and that they are disproportionately people of color. When do we get disgusted enough with what we have created and say enough? 

We have a policing problem in America, but it is part of a much deeper and broader failure of this society to live up to the promise of America, which continually eludes us.

As I prepare to step down as university president on June 30, I am confident that our university and the OSU community are in the right hands with incoming president King Alexander. He and I talk often and I know he shares my personal values and leadership commitment to inclusivity, safety and opportunity for all. I know that as OSU’s next president, he will be unwavering in helping advance the work of inclusive justice and opportunity for all that must be part of life within OSU — and across America.  Together with Chief Rodriguez, he will help us move in the right direction in our little part of the world.

In closing, I ask that each of us continue to participate in dialogue, leadership and understanding as we seek to alter the direction of society. I know this will not happen overnight, but by God it needs to happen soon. 
 It has been ten days since the world saw the video of George Floyd dying while a white police officer pressed his knee into Floyd's neck. It has been a week since protests began around the country and across New York, convulsing the city. Yesterday, hundreds if not thousands of New Yorkers gathered in Brooklyn, and then marched across the Brooklyn Bridge past One Pace Plaza, in a moving commemoration of Floyd's life. We join in mourning his loss.
 
During this time, we have been listening to the Pace Community and hearing the pain, anguish, and anger. We are reflecting on our commitments, talking with our Student Government Associations and Black Student Unions, and determining how we can move the University forward while doing more to fight for equality and justice. We know we haven't always gotten it right, and we want to do better.
 
We recognize that Floyd's death is not an isolated case. It has been three and a half months since Ahmaud Arbery was shot and killed while out for a jog; nearly three months since Breonna Taylor was shot and killed by police who'd broken into her apartment; ten days since Tony McDade was shot and killed by police investigating a stabbing. It will soon be 10 years since Danroy "DJ"Henry, a Pace student and football star, was shot and killed by a police officer in Pleasantville. We mourn those losses, too. We know there is much to be done. We are remembering and relearning the words of Angela Davis: "It is not enough to be non-racist, we must be anti-racist."
 
At Pace University, we are committed to being unbiased and anti-racist across our institution.
 
We are committed to hearing from all voices and empowering all parts of our community.
 
We are committed to standing up for what is right.
 
In the last academic year, we hired Pace's first chief diversity officer and established the new Division of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. That Division worked to update our hiring practices to mitigate bias and increase diversity, and it centralized key offices to streamline and focus their important work. There is much, much more to be done.
 
Today, we are committing to the following actions:
 

    We will establish a Presidential Task Force, composed of students, staff, faculty, and alumni and funded by the President's Office, to examine the Pace experience for all in our Community, including those who are Black, those who are brown, and those from other historically underrepresented groups. Under the guidance of the chief diversity officer, in partnership with other campus leaders, and guided by the findings of the forthcoming Diversity Climate Survey, the Presidential Task Force will design a plan with short- and long-term strategies for a more equitable and just Pace University. It will welcome input from all parts of the Pace Community. The Presidential Task Force will be formulated in the coming weeks and will issue its recommendations by the end of fall semester.

 

    We recognize that voices need to be heard and action needs to happen everywhere across the University, and we ask departments and divisions to review their areas to develop long-term commitments for systemic change. These recommendations will be developed by October 1, 2020, and forwarded to the Presidential Task Force for inclusion in the University's comprehensive plan.

 

    We will soon launch a reporting site on which members of the Pace Community can register incidents or experiences contradictory to the inclusive environment we seek to sustain. This site will launch during fall semester. Whether reported on this site or elsewhere, University leaders will always investigate and respond to incidents that are brought to our attention.

 

    In the next week, we will organize a community forum, modeled on this week's session for faculty and staff, in which all members of the Pace Community will be invited to share their experiences and their visions for how Pace can make a difference.

 

    We will design a comprehensive series of programming for the fall semester to examine racial justice in our community and our country, including honoring the memory of DJ Henry as we mark 10 years since his murder.

 
We welcome all in the Pace Community who wish to serve on the Presidential Task Force. Its agenda will not be set by the administration; it will be set by the community. The Presidential Task Force will convene in the coming weeks. If you're interested in serving on it, please contact diversity@pace.edu .
 
We had planned a Diversity Climate Survey for last semester, to capture critical voices and experiences to inform the work of the DEI Division. It will be launched when we return to campus. 
 
Fall programming already in development includes the Our Pledge Against Oppression discussion series, featuring panels on working toward anti-racism and examining race and the prison-industrial complex and a symposium on the absence of Black and Latina/o/x intellectual communities in academia; a teach-in series rooted in critical race theory; a social justice reading club; and the annual MLK lecture.
 
We have also compiled a list of resources to answer the question, "What can I do?"It is available at www.pace.edu/takeaction .
 
We know that this is just a start. But we are committing to do the work, and we will use these first steps as a basis for our future plans. We will have more information for you soon on next week's Zoom meeting, and more detail forthcoming on the Presidential Task Force and fall programming.
 
We have always believed that Pace's strength lies in its community. Despite the many and enormous challenges currently facing us, we still believe that. Let's stand up for each other, listen to each other, and work together to build an even better Pace. 



The tragic circumstances surrounding the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis, following other recent unspeakable tragedies, makes clear yet again that systemic discrimination and unjust racial disparities continue to plague our country. It is past time for change.

We cannot remain silent in the face of this heart-breaking reality. As an institution of higher education, we have an obligation to fight ignorance and intolerance, model inclusivity and embrace the power that diversity represents. 

In the face of hatred and bias, we must speak out. We must not accept apathy, indifference or silence, otherwise we allow hatred, prejudice and intolerance to grow. 

Our message today is, foremost, one of profound compassion for all who live in fear that the color of their skin, gender identity, ethnicity or religion makes them a target of hate. Our hearts ache as we can only imagine the trauma, pain and frustration that many are feeling at this time. 

This message also reaffirms Penn State’s commitment to disrupting hate, bias and racism whenever and wherever we encounter it, and to creating the most inclusive and diverse community that we possibly can – one that is free of discrimination; one that embraces differences; and one that respects all individuals. 

We support our community as you express your sadness and anger through peaceful protest, and we know it is even more challenging to support and lift each other up during this global pandemic, with the added difficulty of social distancing. However, please know that our entire University community grieves with you, supports you and joins with you as we strive for positive change. 

Our country has witnessed with horror the untimely deaths of George Floyd and Ahmaud Arbery, black men whose deaths have come even as we struggle to absorb the disproportionate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on minoritized communities. All around us, people of color are dying at a higher rate, making further visible the structural inequities that pervade every area of the American experience. 

As Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz said, "These are things that have been brewing in this country for 400 years."

It is easy to feel overwhelmed by these events and give in to despair. But we must not give up because we know that inaction supports injustice, inequity and racism. 

We must deepen our work to make our community one where justice and equity are central to who we are. We must work towards equity and justice at Portland State, in Portland, in Oregon, in America, and across the world. It will take intentional and collective action to dismantle systemic structures of oppression. 

We stand with communities in Minnesota and Georgia calling for justice, and we affirm our commitment to doing our own work to ensure that justice and equity are a core part of all of PSU.

Today, and always, black lives matter. 






Leebron: We must act to reduce deadly discrimination and racism
SPECIAL TO RICE NEWS – JUNE 1, 2020
POSTED IN: CURRENT NEWS, FEATURED STORIES


Share23
Rice President David Leebron sent the following message to the university community May 30:

President David Leebron
President David Leebron

We draw many things from being a community. We do things collaboratively. We define and share our values. We take collective joy in our successes. We commiserate when there are reasons for sadness. And we come together in times of crisis and danger.

Over the summer, when our students and also to some extent our faculty are dispersed, the immediate sense of community and our ability to rely on it is diminished. This year that is even more so since our education has been completely online since March. And although our students may still be seeing each other in classes on screens, many of the casual interactions that build our connections to each other no longer take place.

There is of course great sadness sweeping across our world and our country because of the pandemic. Many have lost friends and family members. Many more are living in isolation and under constant threat of danger to their health. Tens of millions have lost their jobs, and collectively our country is facing a level of unemployment and financial distress we have not seen in 90 years. And these burdens have fallen unequally on different communities.

And yet, amid all of that, there is now a deep pang of pain sweeping across America that cries out for recognition, that demands that our voices be heard.

Just three weeks ago I wrote on Twitter about the horrific shooting of Ahmaud Arbery, who was killed while jogging in the coastal city of Brunswick, Georgia, in late February. In mid-March, Breonna Taylor, a young emergency medical technician in Louisville, Kentucky, was killed in her apartment when police entered. And last week, George Floyd was killed in Minneapolis when an arresting officer knelt on his throat for over eight minutes.

pull quote

What these recent cases, and others, have in common is that they all involved victims who were black Americans. Black Americans who were treated as a threat when they weren’t. Black Americans who were treated as if they did not belong in a place when they did. Black Americans who were treated as if they were not a vital part of the fabric of this nation when they have fought and died and sacrificed for it as much as any others. Black Americans who were killed when the circumstances provided no justification.

There is anger and pain and fear across America, not because these are new things to deal with, but because they aren’t. Last fall, for example, Atatiana Jefferson, a young Xavier University graduate working in the pharmaceutical industry, was killed by a police officer who entered her home in Fort Worth, Texas, without identifying himself. The names of these victims are seared in our memories.

For the most part, I write to the campus about events only when they directly involve Rice, and usually when our campus is in session. But occasionally, external events, nearby or far away, are such that they reach deeply into our community and especially affect a valued part of the Rice community. And so although we are currently dispersed and these incidents did not directly involve members of the Rice community, we must acknowledge that these events cause pain and fear to a vital part of our community. It is a pain and fear that many of us have trouble even imagining. Even in the middle of a global pandemic, it is a deep and enduring pain and fear that deserves acknowledgment and caring, and recognition that we must do better.

We must therefore join with our own expressions of concern and sympathy and outrage. We must work to build an inclusive environment, one that respects and values people from different backgrounds. We must take part in efforts to reduce the deadly discrimination and racism that is an unstaunched wound in our national fabric.

And so I write today to convey on behalf of the Rice community, to all of our community, and most especially to the black members of our community, that we acknowledge the sorrow and the fear and the pain. And that we know as a university and as individuals we must contribute to healing that wound.











As an organization committed to being a voice for the under-represented, SHPE denounces all racism. We wholeheartedly support equality and enthusiastically stand with everyone who is committed to diversity, respect, and justice
Even as this flashpoint in the struggle for racial justice unfolds primarily in the US, ours is a global community. Some struggles are more visible in certain geographies over others, owing to histories of oppression, but we fully recognize that members of our community worldwide are faced with a long list of systemic injustices. The task that lies before us is one of weaving equity, inclusion, and solidarity into each of our scholarly and professional activities, so that "diversity and inclusion" are not add-ons, but deeply integrated into our every practice, whether it involves conference processes, volunteering responsibilities, or global community support mechanisms.
Within SIGCHI, we care deeply about addressing discrimination of all kinds. We are committed to bringing down barriers to equal participation — in our community and the many worlds in which we work, but we must do better. It is not enough to not be racist; we must be anti-racist. With this in mind the SIGCHI Executive Committee (EC) is committing to taking the following steps to confront racism and other forms of discrimination and structural inequity.
    Listen and Reflect: We will identify avenues for our community members to share their experiences, observations, and suggestions around representation and existing practices, so that we can all listen actively, reflect, and learn. We will work together with those whose ability to participate is impacted, to identify ways of amplifying these voices. We will organize dialogues with our members so we all may strengthen our approaches to identifying and addressing prevalent forms of discrimination, racial and otherwise.
    Act Locally: Relying on lessons learned through active listening, we will communicate practices for our community to engage and adopt in personal and professional arenas, including in SIGCHI conferences, events, and publications.
        Represent: We will conduct a systematic review of formal SIGCHI policies and regular practices to examine how best we can respond to bias and bring down barriers that obstruct equal participation for any number of reasons. Specifically, we will take a deeper look at our conferences, volunteering, and community support offerings, to assess how our community may be better represented.
Based on our active listening, the SIGCHI EC will identify recommendations by the end of September, report these to the SIGCHI community in writing, and discuss them in a (virtual) town hall before the end of 2020. We will then begin the work towards integrating these short- and long-term recommendations into SIGCHI policies and practices. Throughout this process, we will be transparent and accountable across the SIGCHI community as we work to achieve our long-term commitments.
We are grateful for the initiative that many in our community have taken in these difficult times, to raise voices against deep injustice and extend support to others affected. Still, we urge our membership — those who are able — to reflect individually and together on the ways in which systemic racism and other systems of domination manifest to threaten the principles of equity and inclusion we espouse as a community. Whether it is in our research activities, our industry jobs, or our classrooms, how might we take on the responsibility of initiating the hard conversations? And of creating the safe spaces in which these conversations may have impact? Our search for justice inevitably ties us together as humans; now is the moment for each one of us to ask — how can we move forward together, in solidarity, to effect deep, systemic change?


SFU Stands in Solidarity Against Racism: Statement from the President
June 02, 2020
Recent incidents of anti-Black violence and discrimination in Canada and the United States provide a disturbing reminder of the prevalence of racism within our societies, and have caused much pain, anger and distress for Black students, faculty and staff.

Despite our commitments to human rights, universities like SFU are not immune to anti-Black and anti-Asian racism, nor to discrimination directed against Indigenous peoples.

Only a few weeks ago, I condemned the anti-Asian racism seen in our communities and spoke of our shared obligation to oppose racial discrimination in all its forms.

The events of recent days add further urgency to this cause. Racism has no place in our society, and we have a responsibility not only to condemn discriminatory behaviour, but also to take action to support inclusion for all.

At SFU, this starts with acknowledging the role we play in perpetuating systemic discrimination, and accepting that we have work to do to ensure that our ideals for a just society are reflected in our own practices, policies and procedures.

To this end, last year we appointed an executive team led by Dr. Joy Johnson to develop an action plan to advance equity, diversity and inclusion across the university. Supported by a pan-university advisory council, the group’s mandate is to eliminate systemic barriers and inequities in access, admissions, recruitment, career development, pay, working and learning conditions, resources, retention and progression.
While that work, including data gathering, is underway, we have much more to learn and much more to do. SFU leadership is committed to growth and change, and I am grateful to many for the part they are playing in building a university community where all feel included.

For students, faculty and staff who experience grief, trauma and/or stress resulting from racism and violence, support is available:

Equity, Diversity and Inclusion help and support: https://www.sfu.ca/edi/support.html
Students: Health & Counselling Services 778-782-4615 and our free, 24/7 mental health support program, mySSP. More information on these and other mental health supports here.
Faculty and all staff: Employee and Family Assistance Program:  Homewood Health 1-800-663-1142
Interfaith Centre: 778-782-3180
 
I have been heartened, as I have said many times in recent weeks, by the energy and commitment that SFU students, faculty and staff have shown to keep our community safe from the threat of COVID-19. Let us now apply that same energy and commitment to ensuring that our community is safe from the threat of racism and discrimination.

It’s all of our responsibility to combat racism, but none more so than those of us who have benefited from white privilege.







The events of the last several weeks have left us with a profound sense of grief, anger, and weariness, but also resolve. We grieve with the family and friends of George Floyd, who was killed by the police in Minneapolis. We grieve with countless other families, including those of Ahmaud Arbery, João Pedro Mattos Pinto, and Breonna Taylor, whose loved ones died senseless and inexplicable deaths at the hands of police officers around the globe.
We are angry at the police officers, their supervisors, and public leaders who allow these actions to continue.
We have grown weary from these reports, coming on the heels of the COVID scourge which has affected us all but especially the very same groups that have been targeted by police officers.
But we are resolved. To prevent the senseless deaths of African Americans at the hands of police and the systematic racism and oppression of people of color, we must transform our anger and grief and resolve to act. We must act at every level.
As leaders of a scientific organization that cares deeply about children, we lean into the research that consistently documents the long-lasting negative effects that discrimination, oppression, racism, and implicit bias have on children. We must discover ways to support families and communities in raising children to become peaceful and tolerant citizens.
We must hold our leaders accountable. Today, leaders at the highest levels are sowing division and racism instead of bringing healing and unity.
We must raise up the voices of unity, accountability, and healing that our nation needs. We need to elevate the voices of youth. Through evidence-based programs, we need to equip them for civic engagement and leadership that will bring about the changes that society needs. We need to stand behind and support youth in creating a better future.
Importantly, we must hold ourselves accountable. As members of the Society for Research in Child Development, we must ask ourselves what we can do in our teaching, our research, and our academic work to bring about the needed changes in our society.
At times like this, we must examine our own beliefs, values, and goals. At SRCD, integrating racial, cultural, and economic diversity into the spheres of developmental science is a central strategic goal. We will continue to promote research that illuminates the lived experiences of children of color, especially in these times of increased oppression and racism. SRCD can be counted on to act based on evidence.
Finally, SRCD builds capacity, as a strategic goal. We will raise up the next generation of researchers, inform policymakers, and equip practitioners in ways that lead to healing the broken-hearted, building bridges across the partisan divides, and advancing developmental science to improve human lives -- #WokeScientist.
We cannot do this alone. We must do this in community and in collaboration. SRCD Commons has been created to grow our sense of community. There are portals for members to communicate with each other for support and information. SRCD is hosting chats, webinars, and virtual meetings with parents of children to offer counsel and support.
Let us commit. Never again.



At the heart of the STARS Computing Corps is a commitment to equity and inclusion in computing. We condemn racism. We will continue to incorporate anti-racist frameworks to guide our work for institutional change. We stand with #BlackLivesMatter






The amount of pain and suffering we are witnessing and feeling is only a snapshot of a broader social reality. We, and everyone before us, have had a role in arriving at where we are today. As such, it is of paramount importance to step up and take a stance. It is our responsibility and a moral imperative to not stand by and simply witness the events around us. We must collectively find our voice and reject racism and inequality. Silence perpetuates, doubt reinforces, and rationalization of incident after incident only compounds the pain so many in our society continue to endure.

While CRA has a long history of celebrating, promoting, and advocating for inclusivity, we cannot be satisfied with continuing the status quo. We will continue to actively stand against discrimination and hatred. We will find new ways to use our voice in Washington to advocate for policies that address the inequities that exist in our field. We will amplify the efforts of our membership organizations wherever we can to help them improve the spaces they occupy and create an environment that is more welcoming, just, and equitable to all. Only together can we begin to right the long history of wrongs that have led us to this place and time.

We start with acknowledging the issues by talking to those around us and explicitly stating that we stand with them when they stand against discrimination and hatred.

We know that racism:

    Is systemic and institutionalized, was intentionally designed, and established well before the foundation of our nation.
    Continues to oppress people of color around the world – denying basic human rights, denying opportunity, and even more tragically denying many of their very lives.
    Is learned behavior that may be unlearned through education, compassion, empathy, and action.
    Drives a wedge between communities, and in doing so limits the enviable quest for a society steeped in respect.
    The privileged benefit from its existence and must be willing to sacrifice to overcome it.
    Lives in our homes, schools, workplaces, parks, churches, stores, amusement parks, government, law enforcement – it lives in us all to varying degrees.

To stand against it, we:

    Acknowledge the existence of racism within our communities and commit to defeating it.
    Call out and reject rationalization of incidents and distortion of information.
    Educate ourselves and those around us to be better equipped to address racism in its many forms.
    Stand up against the status quo by using our voice and agency.
    Commit to systemic change in laws, policies, procedures, etc.
    Dedicate all necessary resources to create lasting change
The Society of Women Engineers is angered and saddened by the recent events in Minneapolis that led to the death of George Floyd.  As an organization we vehemently denounce racism!  Systemic racism faced by those of color in our communities across the United States has become all too familiar.  We must stand together to demand justice and work together to turn our pain into purpose.  Nothing will change if those outside the impacted communities stand by and do nothing.  We must be true allies, standing shoulder to shoulder, asking the tough questions of our civic leaders.

To support the increased participation of women and minorities in engineering, SWE became a founding member of the 50K Coalition.  Since 2015, together with the American Indian Science and Engineering Society  (AISES), the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), we have been working together, using the collective impact model, to increase the numbers of engineering graduates from underrepresented populations to 50,000 by 2025.  Moreover, we have Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with the above-mentioned groups supporting initiatives like joint membership, research and public policy.  This year we are working on additional agreements with NOGLSTP, oSTEM and SASE.

We also recognize that as an organization we have our own work to do. The lack of visible diversity in our leadership is palpable.  For the past several years, SWE leadership has focused on creating a more welcoming and inclusive environment within the Society.  While our efforts may not always achieve the goals we have set forth, we cannot hope to accomplish those goals if we do not actively focus on them.  And we acknowledge that as an organization we still have a lot of work to do. 

As an organization we are committed to our diversity and inclusion principles:

    Developing women in engineering across socio economic strata and occupational focus
    Encouraging interest in and active participation of women and girls of underrepresented groups including (but not limited to) African-American, Asian, Hispanic, Pacific Islanders and Native Americans
    Supporting women and respecting their differences in family status, sexual orientation, sexual identity, age and physical ability
    Work collaboratively with men to confront gender bias and create a more inclusive engineering community

This year our SWE Senate has convened a sub-team to address the lack of diversity within our leadership pipeline.  And that work will continue in the next fiscal year.  We want to be solutions-driven.  Our KPI metric dashboard tracks the diversity demographics of both our membership and our leadership. Details will be shared on swe.org and in the State of SWE conducted every spring. We are holding ourselves accountable and we expect our members and partners to hold us accountable as well.

SWE is a place for women of all backgrounds to come together and share unique perspectives and advance both themselves and the field of engineering.

To our diverse members and every woman of color in STEM fields, your voice is important. We want to reiterate that we are an inclusive organization and we need you in order to increase representation in all levels of our profession and SWE leadership. 

Message to Our Community
Saturday, May 30, 2020, By News StaffShare
To the Syracuse University Community,

We write to you in the midst of tremendous pain, sorrow, anger and concern. From scenes in Minnesota, Georgia, New York and beyond, we have witnessed horrific images reminding us that the sting of racism and systemic injustice is real.

Each act of discrimination and violence carries with it a significant and sustained impact, especially among those targeted. George Floyd is a visceral and painful reminder of the unique ways many of us—students, faculty, staff and alumni—have experienced discrimination and violence. We are clearly in the midst of troubled times, and while civic and law enforcement authorities bear a particular responsibility, we of Syracuse University are now presented with a collective and crucial opportunity.

We recognize the hate and terror that continues to infect each and every corner of our country and world. To face such truth requires compassion. We also witness the tremendous goodness found within our diverse campus community, and we fully believe in our capacity to create and sustain our common good.

The challenges before us might seem impossible to overcome, and we are all far from perfect. Our response must meet the importance of this moment, to build communities where hate and intolerance are not just condemned and rejected, but eliminated. We are now called upon to embody our values and embrace each other. We must choose—through our words, thoughts and deeds—to emerge as a stronger and more just community.

We grieve for the families who have lost loved ones and for those who are suffering. It is simply not enough to try to imagine what others are going through. We must have the respect and resolve to do something about it. When we engage one another with kindness and compassion, we are working to ensure the dignity and worth of all.

While distanced around the world, we in the Orange Community can bind together and act together, for the sake of our world.

With hope,

Kent Syverud, Chancellor and President
Keith A. Alford, Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer
The Rev. Brian Konkol, Dean of Hendricks Chapel

To the Temple community: 

Recently, we have watched the horrific accounts of the deaths of George Floyd in Minnesota, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. Temple joins those who oppose racial oppression and are actively working toward racial equity. Our university was built on the idea that the world is filled with diamonds and these diamonds can be found anywhere and everywhere regardless of race, ethnicity or socio-economic background. As an educational institution, Temple promotes critical thinking and peaceful and purposeful activism. We join with leaders in the Philadelphia region in condemning violence that harms others and destroys property.

Last week, students, faculty and staff were invited to take part in programming and support services designed to help the Temple community process and constructively respond to this difficult season in our shared history. This programming will continue, led by Temple's Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership (IDEAL). We invite you to join with IDEAL for an "Envisioning Racial Justice" webinar to be held Tuesday, June 2. IDEAL regularly shares recommendations of books, articles and other valuable resources, like How To Be An Antiracist by Ibram X. Kendi. Not only is Dr. Kendi a National Book Award-winning and No. 1 New York Times Bestselling Author, he is a Temple Owl, having received his doctorate in African American Studies in 2010. Follow @templediversity for the most up-to-date recommendations and information about additional events.

If you believe you have been the victim of racial discrimination or harassment, please contact the university's EOC office, the focal point of Temple's institutionwide efforts for equal opportunity, equal access and affirmative action. Tuttleman Counseling Services and the Employee Assistance Program also remain available to support you as we face these challenges.

We have every confidence we will navigate this difficult time together.

Richard M. Englert
President

JoAnne A. Epps
Executive Vice President and Provost
Dear TSU Family, Tennessee State University shares the pain of those mourning the loss of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We also share that same anguish, sadness and outrage for the other black men and women across the country who are victims of police brutality because of the color of their skin. Our hearts ache for them and their loved ones, and also for the city that we call home. Nashville has had to endure the seemingly unimaginable this year. The decimation of deadly tornadoes; the physical, mental and economic impact of a pandemic; and now a peaceful rise against injustice that turned violent. While TSU does not condone the violence that erupted during the recent protests in Nashville and nationally, the university sternly and unequivocally opposes injustice and racism. Our institution has a rich history in the civil rights movement, as well as the modern-day movement. Many of our former students helped integrate Nashville's lunch counters, a historic moment in the city's history. Today, our students, from around the country and here in Nashville, are leaders in their communities fighting for change. We must seize this opportunity to continue the dialogue to demand fair and equitable treatment for all Americans, for all Nashvillians. Dear TSU Family, Tennessee State University shares the pain of those mourning the loss of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We also share that same anguish, sadness and outrage for the other black men and women across the country who are victims of police brutality because of the color of their skin. Our hearts ache for them and their loved ones, and also for the city that we call home. Nashville has had to endure the seemingly unimaginable this year. The decimation of deadly tornadoes; the physical, mental and economic impact of a pandemic; and now a peaceful rise against injustice that turned violent. While TSU does not condone the violence that erupted during the recent protests in Nashville and nationally, the university sternly and unequivocally opposes injustice and racism. Our institution has a rich history in the civil rights movement, as well as the modern-day movement. Many of our former students helped integrate Nashville's lunch counters, a historic moment in the city's history. Today, our students, from around the country and here in Nashville, are leaders in their communities fighting for change. We must seize this opportunity to continue the dialogue to demand fair and equitable treatment for all Americans, for all Nashvillians.
A Statement from President Oldham

Published Tuesday Jun 2, 2020
MEDIA RESOURCES
Our nation continues to be marred by injustice, racism, and violence. We observe recent events, that we have seen all too often, that threaten our ability to live with respect for each other.  The unwarranted death of George Floyd should never be forgotten.  I am saddened and struck with the overwhelming belief that we, as a nation, are better than this.

As a university community, we must take a stand and remain committed to our core values of inclusion, respect, kindness, and tolerance toward all.  Our students will be forever shaped by our words, actions, and response to the inexcusable treatment of people of color we have witnessed. 

At Tennessee Tech, we will be a safe place for African American students, faculty and staff. I ask you to hear their voices and pray that all of us will be granted an extra measure of God’s wisdom, grace, tolerance, and patience as we listen to each other and stand beside one another.

RETURN TO NEWS ROOM
The Texas A&M System condemns all racist behaviors, actions, and comments that tear at the moral fabric of our nation. The System is appalled at the deplorable and egregious acts of brutality by some police officers against African Americans. As the nation grieves, the A&M System is also experiencing sorrow and has devoted its platform to stand up against unjust racial disparities.

Based on diversity as a core value of our system, we denounce all forms of violence perpetrated against African Americans. The death of George Floyd, and many others, at the hand of police officers is a despicable and unacceptable outcome. Suffice it to say: IT MUST STOP. All forms of racism, from bias and micro-aggressions to racialized violence, create an undue weight on our faculty, staff, students of color, and administration. As such, there is a direct need to continue to educate and act on our values of inclusion and equity.

The Texas A&M System shall take all necessary steps to ensure that its employees and students are committed to the tenets of human respect and decency. To make a positive impact, we will make a unified commitment to translate our ideals into action for sustainable and proactive change. Equally as important, The Texas A&M System shall remain committed to providing an inclusive environment where all its members can thrive safely.

The A&M System believes all universities under the auspices of the Texas A&M Banner shall speak out against systemic and institutional racism at all levels. Likewise, we urgently call on all Texans and the nation to resist hateful and racist actions and refuse to drink from the bitter cup of divisiveness.

Dr. LaVelle Hendricks, Chair, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Angela Allen, West Texas A&M University
Dr. Carol Bunch Davis, Texas A&M University-Galveston
Larry Davis, Texas A&M University-Central Texas
Dr. Toney Favors, Texas A&M University-Texarkana
Dr. Manuel Flores, Texas A&M University-Kingsville
Elma De Luna-Gonzalez, Prairie View A&M University
Tim Gritten, Texas A&M University-San Antonio
Dr. Peter Haruna, Texas A&M International University
Dr. Lince Tiburcio, Tarleton University
Dr. Sherdeana Owens, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Dr. Christine Stanley, Texas A&M University
Dr. Julia Ballenger, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Joyce Miller, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Minita Ramirez, Texas A&M International University
Carl Greig, Texas A&M University-Texarkana
Dr. Corinne Valadez, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Dr. Jennifer Schroeder, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Brenda Moore, Texas A&M University-Commerce


Dear Texas Tech University family,
We have all been affected and saddened by the tragic and violent events in Minneapolis,
Minnesota. The events have brought to mind difficult and complex questions about racism
and justice. For some of our fellow students, faculty, and employees, what happened to
George Floyd feels like it could happen to them too.
That requires all of us to have an extra measure of compassion and understanding as we
move forward. Take time to listen to one another, to have the hard conversations and
uncomfortable exchanges. It is precisely those dialogues that strengthen the sense of
community that is an essential part of our university.
I want to reaffirm Texas Tech's unwavering commitment to a welcoming environment for all.
Many ethnicities are proudly represented on this campus, and our students are drawn from all
50 states and more than one hundred countries. That is a great strength, but it also means that
all of us—the administration, faculty, employees, and students alike—must treat every
person in this community with the respect and compassion they deserve. That is our bedrock
standard, and no matter our background, our bond as Red Raiders unifies us in a common
cause and in our responsibility to one another.
This past spring, the University held a series of dialogues about race relations on campus,
and that work has never felt more urgent. We intend to continue these efforts in the year
ahead and I also want to call attention to the many resources that are here for students,
faculty, staff, and administrators in the meantime. We have first-rate health and counseling
services to support you and additional educational resources and programs are provided
through the Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, and the Center for Campus Life. We
will work with colleagues across the Texas Tech University System, the Athletics
Department, the Texas Tech Police Department, as well as with our elected officials and
civic leaders here in Lubbock, to ensure your safety and well-being.
We are all Red Raiders, and we are all dedicated to a University that celebrates diversity and
draws strength from it. Following the closures of this spring, we aim to return to campus as
unified as ever. That's the Texas Tech way. And it reflects our most deeply held values of
respect, inclusion, compassion, and mutual concern.
We look forward to being able to resume our campus life, and I wish all of you the best in the
weeks and months to come.
Sincerely,
Lawrence Schovanec
President
Texas Tech University


TTIC's Mission Statement says: "TTIC is committed to the values of human freedom, dignity, prosperity, and diversity." President Turk confirmed in an internal mail to the TTIC community on Tuesday that the Institute is firmly committed to those values, and supports those demanding an end to intolerance, discrimination, marginalization, and bigotry. Racism and discrimination have devastating effects on society. Silence plays a key role in upholding and supporting narratives that contribute to systems of oppression and injustice.

The recent killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery, along with too many others, have caused profound new grief and adversely affect our lives and the lives of those we care about in significant ways. We must individually and collectively reflect on the lives lost unnecessarily, and the systemic problems and challenges we all face as a society. The unnecessary race-based killings and violence must end.
Community Message on Racial Injustice
Sunday, May, 31st, 2020 President's Desk Speeches and Messages

May 31, 2020

Dear members of the Tufts University community,

This spring has been a difficult one for our entire community, as all of our lives have taken turns that were inconceivable just months ago. But it is important to recognize that we have not all been challenged in the same ways. The coronavirus pandemic, with its disproportionate impact on the health and economic status of communities of color, has revealed, once again, the deep disparities that continue to exist in our nation. And the recent acts of violence against Black people demonstrate, once again, the racism and injustice that persist in our society.

I recognize that I have the privilege of being able to go for a jog or put on a mask without fearing that my skin color will make me a target. Not all members of our society—and our Tufts community—enjoy such privilege. To our Black students, faculty, staff and alumni, please know that I stand with you in demanding these injustices stop.

As a community, we want to come together, share our pain, and find a way to be a part of the solution. But we are currently separated around the world. I hope we can use our distance as a strength, rather than a barrier. Let’s work to improve the communities in which we find ourselves today and hope that by our actions, we can begin to knit this nation together.

I hope you will stay safe and support one another during these difficult times.

Best wishes,

Tony Monaco

A MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT LILY D. McNAIR "Dear Students, Alumni, Colleagues and Friends:


This past week, we have all experienced a range of emotions after viewing the horrific and senseless murder of George Floyd at the hands of law enforcement officials. As a mother, wife and president of Tuskegee University with more than 2,800 students – of which 35% are male – I am concerned about your safety and futures. While Black males have been the most obvious targets of police brutality and mistreatment, I am equally distressed about the fate of Black women who have increasingly suffered from similar miscarriages of justice.


I have a particularly heightened sense of concern for your safety and general well-being during these trying times. After watching the weekend protests occurring in major cities in the country, my heart sank again as I saw the video of two students from our sister institutions of Morehouse College and Spelman College who were forcibly removed from their vehicle and tasered by Atlanta police without obvious provocation. The death of George Floyd and these subsequent protests have exposed the troubling state of our country on many fronts – including racial disparities, social injustices, and economic inequalities that disproportionately affect the poor and people of color. Although many of you may choose to participate in these protests, I ask that you be mindful of the notable cause of peaceful protests. 


You are an important part of my family, so I ask that you stay safe. We will be working with student leaders and others over the coming days and weeks to engage in action-oriented solutions focused on anti-racism, peace, equality, and social justice reform. Join the Division of Student Affairs on Thursday, June 4, at 8:00 p.m. central time on Zoom for ""Know Peace, Know Justice: A Safety and Mental Health Discussion."" The Zoom link will be sent separately and posted on social media.


Stay safe. Stay focused. Know that we will get through this together.


Sincerely,
 
Lily D. McNair, Ph.D.
President"

Minneapolis, Louisville, Atlanta
Published May 30, 2020

Dear university community,

At the University at Buffalo, we believe that intolerance, hatred and institutional racism have no place in our community or our nation. That is precisely why our university—in principle and in practice—has deliberately cultivated a diverse, inclusive community grounded in respect for each other’s humanity.
 
As a university community, we are deeply saddened by the lives senselessly taken in Minneapolis, Atlanta and Louisville. As we watch neighborhoods and cities consumed by destruction and chaos, we mourn peacefully but not passively.
 
Instead, with unwavering compassion, let us lift our voices together and, as one, pledge that all people—regardless of race or gender—be afforded a life of liberty, equality, opportunity and dignity.

Sincerely,
 
Satish K. Tripathi
President


Important Message from UAB Leaders
by Tyler Greer
June 01, 2020 Print Email
UAB Community,

Integrity, respect, accountability, diversity and inclusiveness are shared values of our institution and are at the core of what it means to be a UAB Blazer. Everybody counts every day. The students, faculty and staff who comprise our richly diverse and inclusive campus — and take pride in living these values — are hurting, along with our community and country.

The senseless murder of George Floyd — fueled by racism and hate — is tragic, unacceptable and not isolated. The recent abhorrent killings of Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery show a disturbing pattern and are proof that an intentional focus on the values we espouse as members of the UAB community are needed now. These incidents have continued to surface as we navigate the COVID-19 pandemic, which has highlighted the systemic health disparities in African American and Latinx communities consistently addressed by leadership in our School of Medicine, as well as uneven enforcement of social distancing executive orders and anti-Asian bias. 

Nothing we can say can heal the deep pain and fear in our community. But we can recognize injustice and actively and purposefully live for integrity, respect, accountability, diversity and inclusiveness every day. Do not let your concern subside. Be a difference for positive change.

We are proud of and affirm our student government association's condemnation of these tragedies and its message encouraging fellow students to take actions beyond words with "donations, signing petitions, safely attending protests, and exercising your civic duties."

There are many opportunities to get involved. We encourage all of our students, faculty and staff to learn more about and seek the resources and programming offered by UAB's Student Multicultural and Diversity Programs and Office of Diversity Equity and Inclusion. 

Self-care is important in times like these. If you need them, utilize the free counseling services UAB offers through Student Counseling Servicesand the Employee Assistance Counseling Center.

Please take care of yourself and each other.

Sincerely,

Ray L. Watts, President

Pam Benoit, Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost

Allen Bolton, Senior Vice President for Finance and Administration

Selwyn Vickers, Senior Vice President for Medicine and Dean, School of Medicine

Jim Bakken, Interim Chief Communications Officer

Shannon Blanton, Dean, Honors College

Tom Brannan, Vice President for Advancement

Jennifer Breland, President, Staff Council

Chris Brown, Vice President for Research

Andrew Butler, Dean, School of Health Professions

Curt Carver, Vice President for Information Technology/Chief Information Officer

Autumn Cypres, Dean, School of Education

Paulette Dilworth, Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Paul Erwin, Dean, School of Public Health

Will Ferniany, CEO, UAB Health System

Kasia Gonnerman, Dean, Libraries

Doreen Harper, Dean, School of Nursing

Ria Hearld, Chair, Faculty Senate

Mark Ingram, Director of Athletics

Eric Jack, Dean, School of Business

Alesia Jones, Chief Human Resources Officer

John Jones, Vice President for Student Affairs 

Lori McMahon, Dean, Graduate School

Kelly Nichols, Dean, School of Optometry

Kathy Nugent, Executive Director, Harbert Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship

Rosie O'Beirne, Interim Associate Vice President for Digital Strategy and Marketing

Robert Palazzo, Dean, College of Arts and Sciences

Russell Taichman, Dean, School of Dentistry

Tim Wick, Interim Dean, School of Engineering 

UA Little Rock Stands with Students, Faculty, and Staff
JUNE 2, 2020

Trojan Family,

This is a difficult time for our country as we struggle with the harmful effects of racism. We grieve with the families of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and so many others. I want you to know that UA Little Rock stands against racism and hate and stands with those who support social justice and equality.

As an institution, we are not immune to issues of inequity and intolerance. Particularly with regard to issues of race and ethnicity, we have not done enough. While we still have much room for improvement, we are committed to doing the work that is required of us to ensure we provide members of our campus community with the space and support to operate authentically in their identity, free from harassment and disrespect.

I know there are members of our campus community, especially those who identify as African American, who are in great pain at this time as you struggle to process this latest tragedy, while navigating the enduring systems of discrimination that you face in your day-to-day life. We want you to know that you have a place at UA Little Rock, and it is important that we continue to work together to ensure the safety and well-being of every member of our campus community. We are here for you and we care for you. You matter.

I am committed to making sure that every member of our campus community is valued, respected, and celebrated–we are stronger together.

Christina S. Drale
Chancellor


Together against Racism and Injustice
June 1, 2020

Dear UBC community:

Recent anti-Black and anti-Asian violence in communities across North America has focused our attention on the deeply rooted racism in Canada and globally.  UBC itself is not immune to racism and injustice.

As a university, we need to make it crystal clear that racism and bias have no place in our community and that we have zero tolerance for it.

On behalf of the University, I condemn and denounce all incidents of anti-Black and anti-Asian racism and the continued racism and oppression that is directed at Indigenous communities. We must work together to dismantle the tools of oppression and white supremacy that remain prevalent and entrenched in our everyday systems.  It is my hope that at least here at UBC, we can work to model a different kind of community – one where we embrace difference and work to build each other up while enacting values of dignity, mutual respect, and justice.

Deeply connected to the wider region, and benefiting from the privilege of being on unceded land, UBC must be responsive to the needs of our wider community and committed to advancing the understanding of equity, diversity, and inclusion. As a public sector institution, we have an obligation and commitment towards the public good; and as a place of learning and engagement, we are uniquely positioned to generate and mobilize knowledge that can transform systems of oppression and support emerging leaders that can help shape not only our campus, but workplaces and communities beyond our campuses. As such we will be organizing a series of public engagements focused on anti-racism.

As the President of UBC, I reaffirm our institutional commitment to inclusion and call for the acceleration and intensification of efforts to build a more inclusive campus community.  Over the coming weeks, I will

Ensure adequate resources to implement the goals and actions of the Inclusion Action Plan.
Meet with the Black Caucus and the Asian Canadian Community Engagement Group.
Support the diversification of the professoriate through the allocation of President’s Excellence Chairs to Black and Indigenous faculty members.
Support identity-based spaces and organizations and ensure that they continue to receive the funding they need.
Fulfill commitments within the Inclusion Action Plan for the recruitment, retention and support of Black students, staff, and faculty.
Ensure that all our public safety officers and other authority figures are adequately trained to eliminate any unconscious or implicit bias.
Endeavour to diversify our community at every level through defined programs.
As recommended by the External review of the Equity & Inclusion Office, establish a dotted line reporting relationship to the Associate Vice President, Equity & Inclusion.
I will also be working closely with members of our administration, the Associate Vice President, Equity & Inclusion, and relevant committees and groups to assess and look at ways that we can enhance our efforts to build a more inclusive campus. We will host a  virtual town hall to elevate voices that are traditionally silenced in our institution and to monitor progress.

At UBC, diversity is our strength – inclusion of different perspectives and experiences is critical to the wellbeing of our community and the individual and collective pursuit of excellence. We can play a role against hatred, oppression, violence and injustice and find a way to support and elevate those who have been traditionally, systemically, and historically marginalized.

I encourage you to think about the role you can play in fighting racism and with that I urge you to read this post on solidarity and anti-racist action from our colleagues at the Equity & Inclusion Office.

If you are in need of support with respect to your wellbeing, please contact UBC Counselling Services or EFAP, explore some ways for self-care, and if you feel that you have faced discrimination while working or studying at UBC, please contact our human rights team. This post on sustainable self-care may also be useful.

On a personal note, I say to racialized students and colleagues at UBC: this is not the first time in history that you have experienced heightened stigmatization and racism. You are strong and resilient and will thrive in the face of this as you have done throughout history. Please don’t let racism cloud your spirit. Go and be the brilliant minds and compassionate hearts that you are, and continue to shine at UBC. You belong here.

If you think there is more UBC can do, I want to hear from you at presidents.office@ubc.ca.

Santa J. Ono
President and Vice-Chancellor

Letter to the UBC Community

A message from campus leaders: Standing together
MAY 29, 2020


EmailPrint
Chancellor Carol Christ and Oscar Dubón, Jr., vice chancellor for equity and inclusion, sent the following message to the campus community on Friday:

While we all profoundly feel the suffering and loss related to COVID-19—suffering and loss visited disproportionately on those who are Black, indigenous, people of color, and poor—we are appalled by the racist killings of recent weeks. We write to express our outrage; we stand in steadfast solidarity with our Black community; and we offer heartfelt condolences to the loved ones of the victims of the racially-motivated violence that is taking place in various communities across America. Unchecked violence at the hands of police and civilians requires our – and all of society's – urgent attention.

As a campus community, we stand with the family of Ahmaud Arbery, who was murdered while jogging in Georgia by two white men. We stand with Christian Cooper, who was the victim of a woman's attempt to use the police as a weapon against him while he pursued his passion for birdwatching in New York's Central Park. We stand with the loved ones of Breonna Taylor, an essential worker during this pandemic who was killed in her home by police. We stand against the senseless killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis by a police officer who knelt on his neck, while three others watched and assisted, as Mr. Floyd choked out the same final words of another slain Black man, Eric Garner: "I can't breathe."

Let us say their names, acknowledge their humanity, and commit to doing what we can to build a more just society.

Let us also acknowledge that while these names and incidents made their way into the national news and discourse, they are not by any means isolated, nor is the racism that underlies them.

According to Rutgers University Sociologist Frank Edwards, one out of every 1,000 Black men in America will be killed by a police officer. This makes them two and half times more likely than white men to die during encounters with officers.

Less noticed by the mainstream media but equally important to elevate are Black women, gender non-conforming and trans people who have been murdered in recent weeks and months.

We must call out and hold accountable our broken structures, build bridges that will lead to mutual understanding and respect across differences, and work to create a future in which we can all thrive, especially in these most challenging times. This work must happen across the nation – and it must happen on a local level as well.

We acknowledge the grief, anger, sadness, helplessness, and outrage that these killings create in our community. Let us channel those feelings toward a commitment to each others' wellness. If you would like support, please contact UC Berkeley Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). Counselors are available for phone and video counseling appointments. There are also new online self-help tools. Visit the CAPS website, call Counseling and Psychological Services at (510) 642-9494, or, when the Tang Center is closed, call the after-hours counseling line (855) 817-5667. CAPS employs mental health professionals trained to provide support to individuals from a wide array of identities, including traditionally marginalized or disenfranchised groups.

In addition, Be Well at Work – Employee Assistance provides free confidential counseling and referrals for our faculty, staff, visiting scholars, and postdocs. To schedule an appointment with an Employee Assistance counselor, please contact (510) 643-7754 or email employeeassistance@berkeley.edu.

Finally, please be aware of the following resources:

Student Organizations: Our campus has numerous and diverse student organizations that students may wish to get involved in. You can explore at callink.berkeley.edu.
Centers for Educational Justice & Community Engagement: These centers provide space, programs, and services for Berkeley's diverse student communities. Learn more at ejce.berkeley.edu/mcc or (510) 642-6528.
Reporting: For information and support on reporting hate crimes or hate-motivated acts, visit stophate.berkeley.edu.
As a campus community, we must uphold a standard of care and respect in both words and actions that lives up to our values and principles of community. This is a time for greater self-examination of society's institutions and structures—including our university—and a bold commitment to healthier national and campus cultures. In this way, we honor lives lost or forever changed through acts of hate and violence by bringing about change for justice and belonging.
To the UC Davis Community:

"I can't breathe." These were the last words uttered by Eric Garner as he was being murdered on Staten Island in 2014.

"I can't breathe."These were among the last words spoken by George Floyd as he suffered the same fate under hauntingly similar circumstances in Minneapolis on Monday evening.

In 2014, I tried to explain the Garner incident to my daughters. Yesterday, I tried to explain the Floyd incident to myself. In both cases, I fell short. Murder captured on video defies explanation.

Needless to say, these tragedies hit my family and me hard. I know it's touched a deep nerve with many of you as well. You have reached out to express your support, concern, sadness and anger, and I appreciate it. To be honest, it's been difficult for me to know how to address this because it is so personal.

I lived in Georgia for nearly 30 years, where Ahmaud Arbery was hunted and killed. George Floyd could have been any African American man, including me. Beyond the constant barrage of fear of the negative consequences of birding while black, shopping while black, cooking out while black, exercising while black — it is just exhausting. And I'm tired.

I can't claim to speak for all African Americans or all people of color. And to ask me or others like me to do so is a burden others don't have to carry. So I have thought a lot about how America got here, so long ago, and why we haven't made as much progress as we often claim.

The events of this week also cause me to believe even more strongly, if that's possible, in building an inclusive environment that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. I remain committed to that and hope you will do what you can to eliminate racism, sexism, and other negative influences on our progression as a nation.

Perhaps higher education can be that positive influence on lives beyond an education. Perhaps here we can create a way forward. Perhaps here we can breathe.

Sincerely,

Gary S. May
Chancellor

Category
Messages and Announcements
Tags
Chancellor's Messages
Offices of the Chancellor and Provost
Fifth Floor, Mrak Hall
University of California, Davis
One Shields Avenue
Davis, CA 95616

(530) 752-2065

Categories
Messages and Announcements
Speeches
Related Articles
Kayton Carter, Renetta Garrison Tull and Chancellor May stand together in a moment of silence. 
Checking In With Chancellor May: Beyond the Moment
June 05, 2020
Provost Hexter standing outside looking at camera
A Message to Our Students as We Near the Close of Spring 2020
June 04, 2020
Chancellor May sitting at desk writing a letter
Checking In With Chancellor May: A Way Forward
May 29, 2020
Chancellor Gary May seriously and thoughtfully looking to the side
Checking In With Chancellor May: Reflection
May 22, 2020
Chancellor May sitting at desk writing a letter
Coronavirus Update for Incoming Fall 2020 Students
May 21, 2020

In Support of the African American Community
May 31, 2020
Dear UCI Community:

We watched with shock and horror the video of a white policeman callously, even casually, kneeling on the neck of an unarmed and unresisting black man until that man was dead, while other policemen stood by and watched.  This brutal and racist act was like something out of Mississippi during Jim Crow, out of the past we don't acknowledge enough, but it wasn't.  It is our reality, in the here and now, a reality that reflects the harsh, brutal, terrible, ongoing legacy of America's original sin.

We empathize with the pain, sadness, and anger that many Black students, employees, and alumni understandably are feeling.  Please reach out to any of us if we can help you during this extraordinary time.

The unrest that is roiling our country, from coast to coast, is a profoundly distressing statement of the crisis of our society.  At the core of this crisis is the reality of anti-Black racism in the United States.  The death of George Floyd was not isolated.  Breonna Taylor, a first responder, died in a hail of gunfire in her Louisville home in March.  Tony McDade, a Black trans-masculine person, was shot and killed by Tallahassee police.  Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia was hunted down and murdered by vigilantes.  His story is all too familiar.  Unarmed, Trayvon Martin was killed by George Zimmerman in 2012.  Their crime: jogging and walking while Black.  This sickening and outrageous roll call goes on and on.

The response to these and other unjustified deaths reflects a profound and justified sense of grievance and frustration with policing and our justice system.  The unrest that we are witnessing is no less about the persistence of systematic oppression and exclusion in educational opportunity, participation in the economy, access to health care, and all areas of social life essential to social justice and human well being.   

As Vice Chancellor Haynes noted in his message last Thursday, the experience of anti-Blackness belies the notion that "We are all in this together." 

But if we are to survive, as a nation, as a society, we must be in this together.  

Here at UCI, an institution devoted to the betterment of the world, our Inclusive Excellence Action Plan focuses on promoting a campus culture defined by community, thriving, and wellness.  That is not enough.  We can and must do more. All of us, collectively, must confront the distinctive, fundamental reality of anti-Blackness. We must also look forward and explore what we can do—in our practices, our teaching, our research, our community engagement, our interpersonal interactions—to mitigate the pervasive and systemic injustices and brutalities of anti-Blackness.

To this end, Vice Chancellor Haynes will develop and launch by fall 2020 a wide-ranging initiative.  With input from campus stakeholders and community, this initiative will ensure that our campus community is educated about anti-Blackness, takes steps to dismantle anti-Black sentiment, enhances scholarly expertise and research, promotes the intellectual and cultural capital of Black communities, transforms the professoriate and knowledge workforce of the future, and identifies other ways we can rise to the serious challenges confronting all of us.   

We stand in unity with the African-American community to deepen everyone's understanding so that we make this world a better place, for today and for future generations.  To do this work we must be in this together.

Let there be light for us all,

Chancellor Howard Gillman
Interim Provost Hal Stern
Vice Chancellor, Student Affairs Willie Banks
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Douglas Haynes
UCI Chief of Police Liz Griffin
The Pain Behind the Protests
Campus Update
To the Campus Community:

Across the country, people are horrified by the recent killings of three African Americans: Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd. We share that outrage. And these are only a few of the most recent deaths to cause particular anguish amongst those who for too long have endured cruelty after cruelty, indignity after indignity.

What stood out about the killing of George Floyd — more than its senselessness, more than its brutality – was its casualness. What was so chilling was the relaxed demeanor of a police officer — sworn to protect and to serve — his hands calmly in his pockets, kneeling on the neck of a fellow human being, indifferent to his cries of pain and the fear for his life. Equally harrowing was his three fellow officers who stood there and did not recognize the need to intervene in a life or death situation. All these behaviors reflected the utter dehumanization of Black life.

We must never let that indifference to human suffering become our own. We must never deaden our hearts to the pain of others. Our fundamental values demand that we care.

At UCLA, we believe deeply that equity, respect and justice are central to the character of our institution, to the health of our democracy and to the well-being of our world. Still, we recognize that UCLA also can and must do better. As campus leaders, we recommit ourselves to ensuring that our policies and actions value the lives, safety and dignity of every Bruin.

We have begun the process of coordinating virtual reflection spaces for departments and units, where we can come together to try and process what has happened. With assistance from the Office for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion and the university’s Equity Advisors, we are also trying to share ways we can honestly and humbly acknowledge the pain and search for solutions. This includes working with student government leaders to understand and address the needs of our students. Our efforts will be updated on the Resources for Racial Trauma web page as we push forward to deeper understanding and genuine change.

We conclude by stating unequivocally that Black lives DO matter. They matter at UCLA. They matter in Minnesota. They matter everywhere.

In solidarity,
Gene D. Block
Chancellor
Emily A. Carter
Executive Vice Chancellor and
Provost
Michael Meranze
Chair, Academic Senate
Michael J. Beck
Administrative Vice Chancellor
Gregg Goldman
Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer
Monroe Gorden, Jr.
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Jerry Kang
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity
and Inclusion
Michael S. Levine
Vice Chancellor for Academic Personnel
John Mazziotta
Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences
CEO, UCLA Health

Louise C. Nelson
Vice Chancellor for Legal Affairs
Mary Osako
Vice Chancellor for Strategic Communications

Rhea Turteltaub
Vice Chancellor for External Affairs
Roger Wakimoto
Vice Chancellor for Research
Yolanda J. Gorman
Senior Advisor to the Chancellor and Chief of Staff

Dan Guerrero
The Alice and Nahum Lainer Family Director of Athletics
Antonio E. Bernardo
Dean, Anderson School of
Management
Ronald S. Brookmeyer
Dean, Fielding School of Public Health
Eric Bullard
Dean, Continuing Education and UCLA Extension

Miguel A. García-Garibay
Dean, Division of Physical Sciences
Robin L. Garrell
Vice Provost, Graduate Education
Dean, Graduate Division

Darnell M. Hunt
Dean, Division of Social Sciences
Brian Kite
Interim Dean, School of Theater, Film and Television

Paul H. Krebsbach
Dean, School of Dentistry
Kelsey Martin
Dean, David Geffen School of Medicine
Jennifer L. Mnookin
Dean, School of Law
Jayathi Y. Murthy
Dean, Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science

Linda Sarna
Dean, School of Nursing
Gary M. Segura
Dean, Luskin School of Public Affairs
David Schaberg
Dean, Division of Humanities
Victoria Sork
Dean, Division of Life Sciences

Brett Steele
Dean, School of the Arts and Architecture
Eileen Strempel
Dean, The Herb Alpert School of
Music
Marcelo Suárez-Orozco
Dean, Graduate School of Education & Information Studies

Pat Turner
Senior Dean, College
Dean and Vice Provost, Undergraduate Education

Tony Lee
Chief of UCLA Police Department
Naomi Riley
President, Undergraduate Students Association
Jean Paul Santos
President, Graduate Students Association
 
UC Riverside Mourns the Death of George Floyd
KIM A. WILCOX
Chancellor
May 29, 2020
Dear Campus Community,

In March and early April, elected leaders held daily press conferences in which they reported the number of ventilators they had secured. In hospitals and labs, physicians, scientists, and device manufacturers looked for new ways to help patients suffering from COVID-19 breathe. Both federal and state entities went to great expense to ensure that those who needed it had air.

Then, this week, videos showed a police officer with his knee pushing into the neck of an African American man named George Floyd, while two others held his legs as he took his last breath. Before he died, Floyd pleaded, "I can't breathe," to the men who took his life. 

There is no denying that air is sought for some and stolen from others. 

The death of George Floyd follows the death of Ahmaud Arbery, an unarmed African American man chased down and shot by white men while jogging near his home in Georgia. 

We represent an institution committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion. To those of you who too well understand the fear of being arrested, assaulted or killed because of the color of your skin – from ongoing Anti-Black racism to COVID-19 Anti-Asian upsurges, we want you to know we are with you and grateful that you are a part of our community. We will continue to foster an environment that not only values equality but fights inequity where we see it.

Our country has buried too many in recent months. We mourn all of these lost lives but today grieve most deeply a loss that didn't have to be and reaffirm our commitment to work toward a better tomorrow. 
Statement on George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery
Today our hearts are burdened, our minds are searching, and our spirits are processing a mix of disbelief, anger and sadness. The news of George Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on Monday night and the disturbing video of his final moments has shocked the world. Taken in context with the recent killings of Breonna Taylor (by police in her own home) and Ahmaud Arbery (by neighbors while jogging), our black community members, in particular, are outraged, traumatized, fearful and in profound pain.

Grief and concern in their purest forms have been made even more poignant during this time of great uncertainty due to the global public health crisis. The coronavirus pandemic has magnified the long history of racism in our country, ongoing inequity, and the status quo of the dehumanization of our fellow Black Americans.

How do we react? What do we do? Where do we start?
We begin by extending our sincere, heartfelt sympathies to the loved ones of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We join in mourning their unspeakably tragic and untimely deaths. We stand in solidarity with our black family, friends and neighbors in their time of need and help them shoulder their everyday lives so that they have the necessary time to mourn and process the deeper meanings of these losses. And most importantly, no matter how painful, difficult or uncomfortable, we must review these events with full transparency and recognize there are systemic problems in our society that desperately need our attention, time and energy to remedy.

We must recognize the violation of human rights and the devastating effects that systemic racism, oppression and violence have on the safety, security and health of communities of color. We cannot let these acts be normalized or allow ourselves to become numb to them. The University of California San Diego unequivocally condemns the disproportionate use of excessive force by some police in communities of color.

We also denounce vigilante acts that terrorize members of the community based upon race, ethnicity, country of origin, religion, disability, gender, gender identity, or sexual orientation. We as a community must not and will not tolerate acts of hate, bias or violence. We are committed to doing what can be done within our institution to make sure everyone feels that they belong and that they matter. This should be our commitment to ourselves and to each other.

Where do we go from here?
In the coming weeks, our Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion has planned community conversations to provide spaces for healing and identifying ways to be agents of change in this moment. Details are forthcoming and will be communicated via campus notice.

We know that statements such as these do not resolve the intractable issues we face as a country. We know it does not even begin to heal the hurt and trauma caused by structural and systemic racism and discrimination. Collectively, let us continue to work together for a more just, equitable and humane society in our service, activism, pedagogy, and community and collaborative efforts.

Pradeep K. Khosla
Chancellor

Elizabeth H. Simmons
Executive Vice Chancellor

Maripat Corr
Chair, San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

Steven Constable
Vice Chair, San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

David A. Brenner
Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences

Margaret S. Leinen
Vice Chancellor for Marine Sciences

Sandra A. Brown
Vice Chancellor for Research

Gary C. Matthews
Vice Chancellor for Resource Management and Planning

Pierre Ouillet
Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer

Becky R. Petitt
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion

Alysson Satterlund
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Judy Bruner
Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer

Anne L. Buckley
Chief Communications and Marketing Officer

Vince Kellen
Chief Information Officer

Patty Maysent
Chief Executive Officer for UC San Diego Health

Daniel W. Park
Chief Campus Counsel

Nancy Resnick
Chief Human Resource Officer

David S. Rose
Chief of Police

Michael Trigilio
Chair of the Committee on Diversity and Equity
San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

SHARE
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Email
Print


Statement on George Floyd
To: UC Santa Cruz Community

From: Chancellor Cynthia Larive

May 29, 2020

SHARE THIS STORY:TwitterFacebookLinkedInReddit
Dear Campus Community,

I write today to share our pain, sadness, and anger for the murder of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota. In the midst of this unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic, the all too common violence and threat of violence perpetrated against Black people and other communities of color in our country escalates. George Floyd’s death is part of an appalling history of racist harassment, assault, and murder that stretches back far too long in the life of our nation. There are too many victims whose experiences never made headlines and whose names will never become public. I know that grief weighs heavily on many members of our community. I struggle with my own sense of heartbreak.

Our university struggles with and works within the same context of white supremacist systems, structures, and conditions that make life more dangerous and precarious for people of color. Universities, like our country, have taken too long to translate our ideals into action or sustainable change. Transforming the university takes work, and we are still engaged in that work. The pace of change is frustratingly slow and the instruments of change are imperfect. The difficulties of this past year for our community highlight how far we have to go. 

I encourage you to reach out to campus services for support. In addition to support services offered by staff in our colleges and resource centers, Counseling and Psychological Services provides assistance for students. For employees, the Employee Assistance Program can provide counseling and support.

Sincerely,

Cindy

Our community and events in Minneapolis and Chicago
 
To: Members of the University Community
From: Ka Yee C. Lee, Provost
Subject: Our community and events in Minneapolis and Chicago
Date: May 30, 2020
 
Our nation is confronting painful issues in the wake of the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis and a number of other racially motivated incidents. These recent examples represent a small fraction of the bias and violence that occurs across the U.S. and around the world each day. The deep alarm expressed by people throughout the country, including in our home of Chicago, reflects many decades of grief and anguish over the intractable scourge of racism against minority communities, particularly African Americans.
 
I know that many of you are feeling sadness, pain, and anger over these recent events. In these already difficult times, this is an occasion for solidarity and for a strengthened commitment to care for each other and work to improve our community, our city and, our nation. Even though most of us are separated by distance as this quarter comes to a close, our shared values bind us together to seek truth, value diversity, and strive for justice.
 
Diversity and inclusion are core values of our institution. We value every member of our campus community, and each of us should show respect for one another. The vitality of the South Side is fundamentally linked with that of the University, and we esteem the deep relationships and partnerships that the residents of the South Side and members of the University community have built together. Fostering a sense of trust, inclusion, belonging and safety for our faculty, other academic appointees, staff, and students is always a priority, and especially so during this time. In the coming days, there will be more information about opportunities for our community to come together in dialogue about these issues.
 
We also encourage you to access the many valuable University resources that may be helpful to you right now:
 
The Center for Identity + Inclusion engages students and members of our University community from all backgrounds to ensure personal, academic, and professional growth, and success.
The Center for the Study of Race, Politics, and Culture offers a wide array of programming, including a Zoom series focused on the racial disparities of COVID-19.
The Pozen Center for Human Rights offers regular programming about global human rights.
Spiritual Life serves as a destination for religious and spiritual needs.
UChicago Student Wellness offers counseling services and other support for students impacted by these and other events.
The Urban Health Initiative runs inclusive community grants and organizes a variety of community programs and services.
The Diversity & Inclusion website features a listing of related events happening across campus.
 
Thank you for the continuing work of people across our University to build a strong, supportive, and inclusive community.
 
 
Keywords: 
Announcements
Diversity and Inclusion
It is hard not to be haunted by the brutal reality that Dr. King’s words are needed as much in 2020 as they were in 1967. America has failed to hear the profound ways we are, repeatedly, failing each other. And not only in small, I-will-do-better-next-time ways. But in the biggest way imaginable—by failing to fight for the basic humanity of our neighbor. Our hearts ache for the family and friends of George Floyd, as they continue to do so for the loved ones of Samuel DuBose. We must agree destruction of our neighborhoods is not the answer. Let us instead heed the clarion call from President Obama to "work together to create a ‘new normal’ in which the legacy of bigotry and unequal treatment no longer infects our institutions or our hearts."
From the Chancellor - Standing against hate and violence
May 29, 2020

As I see national news stories about the death of George Floyd and other recent acts of racism, I reflect on the conversations I had earlier this year with our students about these very issues. 

Even though a global pandemic is keeping us apart from each other, I share in your pain, anger and sadness. When we see acts of racism, it affects us deeply and takes a physical, mental and emotional toll. We must reach out and support each other as we process what has happened. For me, I will not lose hope. I take heart in how our students have engaged with us over the last academic year. We had honest conversations in a genuine effort to enhance campus climate together and build a more welcoming, safe and inclusive community for all.

These intolerable injustices, whether they happen in Minnesota, New York or here in Colorado, strike at the core of everything we believe. Let me be clear: I am committed to diversity and inclusion of everyone on our campus. 

We stand in solidarity with all members of our campus community, including our police department and the city of Boulder in encouraging and supporting peaceful demonstrations.

As a campus community, it is incumbent on us to encourage civil discourse that lifts us all from this darkness. Universities can be, and must be, at the heart of social change. As a campus, we continuously work to cultivate a diverse, inclusive and welcoming community. We best illustrate this through our moral actions when we see injustice, close to home or far away.

Please take care of yourselves, each other and use our campus support resources, which continue to be available during these difficult times. 
 

Phil DiStefano,
CU Boulder Chancellor
Dear UConn Community,

Recent events have called national attention yet again to the destructive power of prejudice and racism. The death of George Floyd in police custody in Minneapolis serves as our most recent example. We are disgusted by the images we have seen capturing the unconscionable acts that caused his death. Demonstrations across the country make clear that communities are hurting and frustrated by repeated acts of violence against their neighbors, friends, and families. These events have saddened and angered so many on a deeply personal level, with the burden of fear for one's own and their family's safety placed squarely upon African-Americans.

Unfortunately, this is just one of many examples of the pain caused by systemic injustices that are present every day. Take, for example, the disproportionate rates of death by COVID-19 among African-American, Latinx, and Indigenous peoples, or the discriminatory acts targeting individuals of Asian descent and foreign nationals from many countries in this pandemic. This adds to the already vulnerable experience of so many in our community, including but not limited to DACA students who are unsure about their future; individuals with disabilities who can feel invisible; LGBTQ+ individuals experiencing verbal and physical acts of violence; individuals subjected to intolerance based on their religious identity and beliefs; and people of color who are forced to constantly question if they can engage safely in routine activities like jogging or bird watching.

These events underscore the critical importance of our infusing diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in everything we do every single day. Not with mantra and platitudes, but with clearly articulated and tangible action that is supported by the University with budget and action. As scholars, educators, and colleagues, we are uniquely positioned to reflect, learn, and act.

We are committed to this work as UConn moves forward from some of its own recent struggles. We have a crucial new partner in these efforts with the recent hire of Dr. Frank Tuitt as our new Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer. We are all eager to work with him to sustain a culture that understands, respects, and appreciates differences, but also one that readily acknowledges our shortcomings and holds ourselves accountable for measurable progress at all times.

As he looks ahead to this new role, Frank shared the following: "I strongly believe that institutions like UConn should be at the center of creating spaces for students, faculty, and staff to imagine and invent ways to build more inclusive, affirming, and equitable institutions, organizations, and communities, and I look forward to doing my part to contribute to that collective effort."

We have communicated closely with him over the past several days, and we all will benefit from his leadership and expertise.

We have the opportunity to engage our entire community in the work that is needed, building upon continued advocacy and efforts of concerned faculty, staff, and administrators at UConn in collaboration with our cultural centers and our amazing undergraduate and graduate students who are willing to speak clearly and directly about their experiences. Change cannot be carried out by one person or one office alone. Too often the labor of this work is disproportionately undertaken by our most vulnerable, impacting their career progression, as well as their mental health and overall satisfaction with their work experience. This is a time when we can build momentum to share the responsibility across our entire community at our Storrs, UConn Health, Avery Point, Hartford, Stamford, Waterbury, and law school campuses.

We also have been extremely fortunate to benefit from the stewardship of Interim Chief Diversity Officer Dana Wilder. Building on strengths of the Office for Diversity and Inclusion, we are positioned as a national leader and a place where people of all identities feel they have a genuine opportunity for success and belonging. We encourage each of you to explore their website, which includes multiple resources including trainings and guides as well as information on events and cultural centers sponsored by their office.

There are no simple solutions or easy answers to solve the issues of injustice and prejudice in society and at our University. Of all of the various parts of our experience as administrators, this is the one area where we both feel like we have not done enough or met our own expectations. We do not experience that feeling as despair, but instead as a motivator to understand and accept our own privilege and the responsibilities that it brings to do more. We encourage our community to hold our entire leadership team accountable as we carry out that vital work together.

The challenge now is to remember this moment even if it fades from the headlines and to continue to strive for a society and a UConn that allows all to live safely and welcomed.

Sincerely,
Tom and Carl

Tom Katsouleas
President

Carl Lejuez
Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs
WE CAN DO BETTER AS A UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY
Photo by Kathy F. Atkinson June 04, 2020

A message from UD President Dennis Assanis
Editor's note: President Dennis Assanis shared this message with the University community on June 4.

Dear UD Community,

Our society is calling for equity and social justice. I hear you, and I am part of that call. We can do better as a University community. And we will do it together.

Over the past several days, many of you have written to me or posted your thoughts on social media to express your anger and frustration about the racial injustices that have been laid bare by the social unrest taking place in our nation. What’s more, I have been truly heartbroken to hear the stories of discrimination and prejudice that many of you have experienced, whether in our broader society or, unfortunately, here within our own community. It is so disturbing to see that some individuals do not grasp the insidious nature of racism and the very real pain caused by offensive and exclusionary language.

Every member of our community — students, faculty, and staff — is welcomed and valued at the University of Delaware. We must ensure that everyone is treated with respect and a sense of belonging. We should seek to find commonality, humanity, and civility to bridge our differences. We condemn the discriminatory and inflammatory words used by some members of our community. They do not reflect the University’s values. We are addressing each of these situations in accordance with the University’s conduct and non-discrimination policies.

Last week, the nationwide protests began as a response to the senseless deaths of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky — as well as the long list of other victims of discrimination and violence in American history. The global consciousness that has been reawakened by these tragedies must continue to advance our progress toward a society that is anti-racist and anti-hate. Education lies at the heart of this effort and is the key to real and lasting change.

Without a doubt, the University of Delaware can and must do more to expand diversity and promote inclusion and equity in our community. Since coming to UD, I have tried to face the challenges of history and culture that I see. Indeed, building inclusive excellence has always been personally important to me. While we have made strides in diversifying our faculty ranks and our student enrollment, there is clearly additional work to be done. I am committed — as is my administration — to redoubling our efforts to increase minority representation among our students, faculty and staff. But we know that the numbers are just one component of the equation. We must work ever harder to promote a more inclusive culture throughout UD where everyone is valued and all can expand their potential and believe in a better future.

To this end, I will be working closely with campus leaders to ensure progress and action around key needs of the University. Recognizing that these are both priorities and opportunities to take UD forward, we all need to take the following steps:

We need to build a more inclusive culture — Through education for all members of our community, we can cultivate a greater appreciation of the value of diverse peoples, cultures and perspectives. This is absolutely essential in modern society and directly supports our institutional mission to prepare our citizens to succeed. This semester we piloted an online diversity, equity, and inclusion education module. We will plan to require this training of all undergraduate and graduate students beginning in this upcoming academic year.
We need to listen and learn — We are planning a series of forums that will span the entire next academic year where all members of our community will have their voices heard and acknowledged. The input gathered at these forums will help inform our next steps as we continue to improve our campus climate with actionable initiatives. We are also mindful of those who have been silent, and we encourage them to come forward and share their stories, perspectives and ideas.
We need to act now — We will strengthen our collective awareness of and response to prejudice, diligently recruit underrepresented faculty and students, and raise funds for social justice initiatives on campus. We will also connect our campus-wide efforts and networks into a more robust agenda for larger impact.
We need to ensure accountability and operate effectively together as a united community — Everyone is responsible, and this needs to be enforced through renewed policies and practices using a framework where differences are respected and celebrated. We must also ensure that our campus climate and culture assessments are frequent and thorough, and that they reaffirm our commitment to improve the diversity and inclusion landscape at UD.
We have more to do — This list is not exhaustive, nor will it ever end. Our work to build a more equitable and inclusive society must be ongoing. We will remain committed to being open, to listening and to working together to make progress possible at UD. We not only welcome your active engagement; we need it. This is a call to action for everyone here now and with ties to UD.
There will be additional steps in the coming weeks and months. I welcome your input as we move forward. Please always feel free to reach out to Michael Vaughan, interim vice provost for diversity and inclusion, at vpd@udel.edu, or José-Luis Riera, vice president for student life, at studentdiversity@udel.edu.

This is an extraordinarily challenging time for all of us. I am inspired by the strength, the caring and the unshakable resolve of the University of Delaware community, and I ask you to join me in recommitting ourselves to ensuring that our institution continues to be a source of pride for all students, all faculty, all staff, all alumni … all people.

Sincerely,

Dennis Assanis, President


George Floyd was a member of our Third Ward community and we share in the tremendous pain our community is experiencing. Our thoughts are with his friends and family, Houston and the nation at large. We mourn with you.
June 4, 2020 | Let Us Reflect on this Day of Mourning
Dear University of Idaho Faculty, Staff and Students,

Today is a National Day of Mourning to respectfully recognize the death of George Floyd and the loss to his family as well as other lives lost. Words and actions matter, especially in times of national unrest and fearfulness, and especially from institutional leaders. They can calm or provoke, heal or hurt, and at their best, motivate meaningful change for good. The memo we sent out earlier this week regarding diversity and safety missed that last mark.

Asking that we treat each other with kindness and compassion was perceived by some as a request not to engage when we witness racism or injustice. That could not be further from what was intended. We must act against racism and injustice by addressing the change that needs to occur to create social equity.

So, today, in this moment of mourning, let me be more direct:

Black lives matter, and what happened to George Floyd and so, so many other African American and black citizens is abhorrent. No human being should ever have to fear for their life based solely on the color of their skin. The tragic fact is this is not a new phenomenon, but rather an all too frequent part of our national history.
There is no room for disagreement when it comes to basic human civil rights and crimes against humanity. We have a responsibility to engage and act when we see injustice. Truly, our future as a society depends on it.
We should be able to have a difficult conversation about race and equity issues and treat each other with civility and compassion … including on social media. This does not mean we tolerate or condone racism or hate crimes; it means that we are a place where people from all backgrounds should feel safe.
Listening — and truly hearing — the concerns of African American and black students, faculty, staff, and alumni, as well as other underrepresented communities, is critical to moving forward. Action toward lasting change matters as well. After campuswide discussions, we have adopted a diversity plan that we believe will help take action and address issues of social inequity. As Vandals, let’s work together and tackle these issues. It is the only way to realize the very best future for the community. Let’s take this National Day of Mourning to pay our respects to a life unjustly taken and work on our own reflection and racial reconciliation.

Scott Green
President

president@uidaho.edu
uidaho.edu/president
The anger, sadness, and fear felt by our community, and specifically Black communities across our nation, over the killing of George Floyd are justified. This is not a new phenomenon and the Black community is, we are sure, exhausted from the constant trauma and pain of being the recipients of mistreatment by those who are tasked with serving and protecting communities—the police.

There is also disappointment, frustration, and pain due to the continued disproportionate police brutality against people of color, specifically the Black community. These inequalities manifest themselves economically and socially. No one should feel their race or any aspect of their identity makes them a target for violence. Addressing inequality requires changing hearts, minds, and systems, and the University of Iowa will continue to work toward that goal through actions. To that end, we will release an update to our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Action Plan, which our community has developed, this coming week.

Over the past several days, the images from across our nation are difficult to comprehend and elicit a range of feelings. While we will engage with these emotions individually, and on our own timeline, one thing is clear—together we must act. Each of us must lead change within our individual communities to actively disrupt racism (interpersonal, systemic, and societal).

As you know, on our campus and within our community:

    We will not tolerate anything but a safe and inclusive campus for people of all backgrounds regardless of race, creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, religion, ancestry, or disability.
    We value the First Amendment and freedom of expression and believe civil discourse and the respectful exchange of ideas are the cornerstones of higher education and this great institution.

We are here to help. Many resources are available and we encourage you to reach out and ask for help.
We, the Chancellor and Provost of the University of Kansas, are emerging, as many of you are, from a week of heart wrenching conversations about the toxic impact that racism has on all of our communities. The deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and David McAtee, and the exchange between Amy Cooper and Christian Cooper in Central Park, are just recent and high-profile additions to innumerable immoral acts of racism to Black members of our communities.

The protests across the country, in the region, and in our cities over the past week and in Lawrence Sunday night are powerful statements of the depth of pain and anger that so many of our students, colleagues and friends are feeling. We have done a lot of listening over the past several days, and we recognize the disappointment that our earlier messages created. We hear our community members when you tell us you are broken-hearted and exhausted, and that it’s too much to bear.

We know that acts of racism and discrimination, in their many forms, happen in Lawrence and at KU, and on a regular basis. We are not free of the causes of this period of protest and unrest.

The egregious acts of racism and discrimination that have been targeted toward our Black community members do not stand in isolation. Members of Asian, LatinX, Muslim, immigrant and LGBTQIA communities are also targets of hate speech, discrimination, and racialized violence. Our community members who have disabilities and those who experience challenges with mental health are often stigmatized, abandoned, and suffer in silence. Members of our Black and Native communities have been disproportionately devastated by COVID-19, which is another fatal reminder of the systemic disparities in health outcomes, availability of financial support, and educational resources for so many of our most vulnerable community members.

Our hearts break with yours. We stand with you and for you.

It’s long past time for racism and discrimination to end. If we are to be on the side of social justice, we — meaning, we as leaders, KU as an institution, and each of us as community members — simply must do the work.

We all need KU to be a place that doesn’t replicate, tolerate or perpetuate racism, systematically, systemically, or individually. We know you are anxiously waiting and hoping that we can get past talking and hollow promises, and do something together in a different way that begins to make things better. You want us to hold ourselves to a higher standard, and we are ready to step up, to take responsibility, and to place KU at the forefront of social change.

In consultation and collaboration with leaders of our communities of color and marginalized groups, we begin today to engage in actions that move us to change:

    We will convene the leaders of our campus police, the City of Lawrence Police Department, the City Manager and the Mayor to discuss policing strategies that reinforce respectful and community-engaged policing, and to re-emphasize comprehensive police training that does not permit the kinds of acts that led to the death of George Floyd and so many others.
    We will bring together the leaders of our diversity councils to establish a university-level advisory council for equity and inclusion and commit to regular and continued outreach.
    We will charge leaders across campus to participate in training that will allow us to begin the work of facilitating intergroup dialogues that bring together representatives of agent groups and target groups to open up difficult conversations.
    We will partner with leaders in higher education and in the public and private sectors across the Greater Kansas City Region to engage in initiatives that immediately begin to address root causes in key areas that impact racial violence.
    We will ensure that improving equity, diversity and inclusion is explicitly stated as a goal for each team in our COVID-19 Design Challenge and in the longer term, in all of our Jayhawks Rising strategic doing activities.

Memorial Hall Mural: Our Past, Our Present and Why It's Time to Move Forward
By President Eli Capilouto Friday

LEXINGTON, Ky. (June 5, 2020) — On Friday, June 5, University of Kentucky President Eli Capilouto sent the following message to all students, faculty and staff:

 

I have not been able to get the images out of my mind. And the images should be — and will be forever — in my mind.

For eight minutes and 46 seconds, on a street in an American city in 2020, George Floyd was suffocated to death — a knee at his neck, gasps escaping from his mouth, as he pleaded for his life and for his mother.

I can't adequately articulate the horror and disturbing nature of those images to me. I don't have words to capture the mix of emotions — of anger and sadness, disbelief and nagging recognition that we have been here before — that have gnawed at me for days.

But I also know that I can't begin to feel how a Black man or woman or the parent of a Black child processes those images, either.

To every issue, we bring our curated experiences — funneled through the prism of our mind's eye — to an incident like this one or, for that matter, to a work of music, writing or art. Those sounds, images and narratives are necessarily interpreted with the context of a given moment by generations of people over the passage of time.

The simple truth is I can't walk in their shoes. I can't be in their skin. And I can't understand what intergenerational subjugation does to families who are its victims.

But I can try for greater understanding, a deeper sense of empathy and renewed resolve to contribute to healing, to do justice and to find reconciliation. As much as racism is a systemic stain on our country, so too, are we the inheritors of Dr. King's admonition that the moral arc of the universe ultimately bends toward justice. That is where I believe we find ourselves as a campus community today. We have not been immune from racial prejudice and hate, but I believe deeply that there is a commitment to doing better tomorrow than we are doing today.

It's against that imperfect and human backdrop that I am directing our facilities team to immediately begin the process of removing the mural in Memorial Hall.

Why now? And what does this move accomplish?

Just as certain images haunt me, I also cannot escape certain conversations that, over years, remain fresh.

To many, the mural represents the work of a renowned artist, seeking in her time, to represent the evolution, however halting, of her native state. And as with all art, we seek to understand the intent of the artist and bring our own meaning and interpretation to it.

I remember a conversation at Maxwell Place with 24 African American students in the fall of 2015. There, they detailed a list of recommendations that included "racist mural in Memorial Hall." There was a conversation with one student about the mural who stopped me cold with the observation that every time he walked into a class in Memorial Hall, he was forced to reckon with the fact that his forbears were enslaved.

They were chattel; brutalized as disposable property, even though in their time, they were regarded as essential to the economy's progress.

The art, to this student, sought to glorify and sanitize that fact. And he was speaking for many others, over many years, a point made clear again to me recently as we began conversations with our student leaders on how to move forward during this fraught time. The mural once again was a symbol, not of a state's evolution, but of our unwillingness to recognize their experiences as members of our community.

Memorial Hall of course, has its own important story — the story of the UK students and Kentuckians who laid down their lives during the Great War. It is a building constructed in honor of all Kentuckians — African Americans, Native Americans, and women alike — who gave their lives to preserve liberty. 

How do we reconcile those images as perceived now with that narrative?

To be sure, we have discussed the mural for many years and made a number of important, productive efforts to seek common ground and lasting solutions. But the spaces we have created for dialogue, and the work we have commissioned to expand conversation and contextualize art, haven't worked, frankly.

Our efforts and solutions with the mural, for many of our students, have been a roadblock to reconciliation, rather than a path toward healing. That's not a criticism. It is a statement of fact and, I hope, understanding.

We need to move forward. We have a lot of discussion that needs to take place on our campus. And those discussions cannot obviate the necessity of thoughtful, but decisive, action on a number of fronts.

I don't believe we can have that conversation with the mural still, metaphorically, on the table. And, so while in the context of many significant issues we must discuss and decide upon, the mural may appear relatively small, it carries with it tremendous symbolic weight.

I want to remove that weight from the discussions we must have, so that we can act, together, as a community. As we determine how we can move forward with removing the mural, I will communicate with the campus.

There is rarely a perfect solution to challenging issues. But it is the right one, I believe, for our campus at this moment and in the years to come.

Eli Capilouto

--

Media note: Downloadable videos and photo available at https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1BTRFI3FPfLd1tR9KRhmI1AjYRjIrACui?usp=sharing

The University of Kentucky is increasingly the first choice for students, faculty and staff to pursue their passions and their professional goals. In the last two years, Forbes has named UK among the best employers for diversity, and INSIGHT into Diversity recognized us as a Diversity Champion three years running. UK is ranked among the top 30 campuses in the nation for LGBTQ* inclusion and safety. UK has been judged a "Great College to Work for" two years in a row, and UK is among only 22 universities in the country on Forbes' list of "America's Best Employers."  We are ranked among the top 10 percent of public institutions for research expenditures — a tangible symbol of our breadth and depth as a university focused on discovery that changes lives and communities. And our patients know and appreciate the fact that UK HealthCare has been named the state's top hospital for four straight years. Accolades and honors are great. But they are more important for what they represent: the idea that creating a community of belonging and commitment to excellence is how we honor our mission to be not simply the University of Kentucky, but the University for Kentucky.
Message to the UIC Community
May 29, 2020

Dear Faculty, Staff and Students,

This week we saw yet another manifestation of the racism that remains in the fabric of our society. The killing of George Floyd in Minnesota, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky, along with other recent events, remind us again, though we don’t need reminding, how far we still have to go as a society to heal centuries of discrimination and achieve true equality.

We share your grief and outrage and we encourage you to continue to live the values of our university — to be inclusive, to treat each other with dignity and respect, and to provide a safe and supportive environment for each other.

At UIC, we are committed to addressing the deep systemic injustice of racism and advancing equity and inclusion for all people in Chicago, in the nation and around the world.  We are a community that values our differences, our diversity and our shared compassion for humanity. We will always strive to be one grounded in mutual understanding and respect.

If you need support coping with the disturbing events that occurred this week, we encourage you to use the many resources on campus available to support students, faculty and staff.

Sincerely,

Michael Amiridis
Chancellor

Susan Poser
Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs

Robert Barish
Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs

J. Rex Tolliver
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Print Friendly, PDF & Email
Contact
UIC News staff

uicnews-staff@uic.edu
          Reflecting on the events in Minneapolis and beyond
May 30, 2020 11:19 AM

Dear Students, Staff and Faculty,

We, along with so many, are struggling to fully comprehend the systemic violence and the actions of members of the Minneapolis Police Department that resulted in the death of George Floyd this week. This is the home of one of the members of our Big Ten university family and our thoughts are with our colleagues and the broader Minneapolis-St. Paul community today.

And while George Floyd is who we see and mourn this week, we have also witnessed the senseless deaths of Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor this spring.

We stand in the middle of a global health crisis that will claim hundreds of thousands of lives and burden millions of others for a generation to come. These are days when the health of our communities depends entirely on our collective commitment to care for one another. This is when we most need to come together.

It is painful to watch streets filled with more anger and more violence sparked by divisive sources of hatred that our nation seems unable to set aside even when we are all threatened by this virus that does not discriminate in choosing who it harms.

For some of us, this is very, very personal. But the grief, sadness and loss is profound and universal.

The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is a community committed to the scholarship, engagement, equity, inclusion and leadership that dismantles systems that utilize power, privilege and violence to disenfranchise, diminish and destroy.

And unfortunately, this same pandemic that has disrupted so much, also prevents us from coming together physically here at Illinois. We are not able to help each other process what we are seeing and what we are feeling in the way we would wish. So, today, when we cannot raise our voices together, we want to share this message in the hope that it will remind everyone that we do not have to remain silent alone.  

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery. Breonna Taylor. We can say their names and we can help ensure that they are not allowed to be forgotten.  

Sincerely,

Robert J. Jones
Chancellor

Barry Benson
Vice Chancellor for Advancement

Andreas C. Cangellaris
Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and Provost

Sean C. Garrick
Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Susan A. Martinis
Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation

Danita M. B. Young
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

 

          
                   
                  
This mailing approved by:
Office of the Chancellor

sent to:
Everyone
          
                   
 
Massmail Archive   •   Massmail powered by Webtools
 
Students lead the way toward reconciliation
Dr. Joseph Savoie -- Sun, 05/31/2020 - 2:23pm
Dear members of the University family,

George Floyd. Ahmaud Arbery. Breonna Taylor. Tony McDade. 

Their tragic deaths – and those of countless others – are reminders that our nation has much work to do to address discrimination, intolerance and other inexcusable barriers to social justice that have burdened us for far too long.

Universities are a place where that work can occur. Indeed, they are a place where it must occur.

It is the University’s responsibility to model principles of civility, respect and understanding for both its campus family and its wider community. Moreover, it is our duty to embody inclusivity and embrace diversity, and to educate others about their power.

Today, our students exemplified these ideals.

Members of the Student Action and Organizing Committee led a community dialogue on campus about the basic human right that all people – regardless of race, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation or ethnicity – have to live in freedom and security.

These students confronted the sadness, pain and outrage they feel about the events of the past week with clarity and thoughtfulness. They answered insular hate with the diverse voice of which this institution is so proud and from which we draw so much strength.

Our students demonstrated civic engagement and community leadership today, and I applaud them.

Moreover, they showed that the path to binding our nation’s wounds – no matter how deep, how historic and how painful – can be illuminated through conversation rather than violence.

Sincerely,

Dr. Joseph Savoie
President

UM denounces racism
Message from President David T. Barnard
JUNE 2, 2020 — 
 

Dear University Community,

Recent tragic deaths have caused immense suffering and anger as they represent a legacy of racism and police brutality against Black people. We are also witnessing alarming displays of racism against the Asian community in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic; and we recognize the interpersonal and systemic racism that is continually experienced by Indigenous Peoples.

On behalf of the University of Manitoba, I want to say clearly that we denounce racism in all its forms, we commit to solidarity with Black, Indigenous and/or People of Colour (BIPOC) and we commit ourselves to listen, to learn and to do better.

For those of us with privilege, it can be easy to ignore what’s happening, to say that it is not our problem or our story here in Canada. But silence represents ignorance and fear. We must be anti-racist. We must recognize white privilege, and that we exist in systems of white supremacy. We must remember that Canada was built on the lands of the Indigenous Peoples and on the backs of Black and Asian workers. We must join our voices to say enough is enough. 

Though I can never fully understand the experiences of racialized communities, I can commit to educating myself on their stories and histories and I encourage others to do the same. I call on our university community – united in our pursuit of knowledge – to research perspectives beyond our own, to learn the many ways that racism is enforced by our social structures, to seek out difficult truths and to acknowledge harms of the past and the present.

The University of Manitoba community believes in the inherent dignity of all people. We respect our differences, celebrate our commonalities, and are united in our mutual focus on intellectual achievement. We continue to strengthen alliances that are working to increase mutual understanding, respect and support.

Finally, to UM’s racialized students and colleagues, thank you for your strength and resilience. Thank you to those who take the time to educate your peers and colleagues and to speak your truth. Thank you for contributing to the strength of our institution.

We are sorry. Now, we must listen. We must learn. We must do better.

Sincerely,
David

To anyone who is looking for support during this time, please connect with Student Counselling Centre or Employee Assistance Program. If you have experienced discrimination while working or studying at UM, please contact our Office of Human Rights and Conflict Management. UM is also home to a number of groups who are leading crucial work to address racism, and promote diversity and inclusion. 
Statement by USM Leadership on Structural Racism and the Killing of George Floyd
Baltimore, Md. (May 29, 2020) – This week, George Floyd was killed in Minneapolis, a brutal act that recalled other recent killings of black Americans. We acknowledge with one voice the structural racism that’s taking the lives of our fellow citizens, and we stand in solidarity as we speak out against racism, anti-Semitism, sexism, discrimination against our LGBTQ and immigrant communities, religious intolerance, and bigotry of any kind.

We are justly saddened, angered, and frustrated by these acts of brutality and the lack of action when black men and women are killed. Mindful of public health guidelines, we also affirm the right of our communities to protest safely and peacefully to address their legitimate concerns.

We believe that public colleges and universities are obligated to help end inequity and to promote social justice. We draw on the leadership and wisdom of our students, faculty, and staff, many of whom confront these issues every day through their teaching, research, and activism.

We encourage all members of the USM community to seek support, if needed, and to involve themselves in addressing these challenges. We urge our students and colleagues not only to vote, but to help safeguard and improve our democracy.

In the days and weeks ahead, we will be listening to the voices of those who are too often silenced or ignored. When we gather together on campus once again, we will examine with greater resolve the racism and systemic inequities that so gravely endanger our minority communities. We are proud to be a part of a University System that believes in humanity, justice, and opportunity for all.

Please take care of yourselves, your families, and your communities during this difficult time.

Jay A. Perman, Chancellor, University System of Maryland

Aminta Breaux, President, Bowie State University
Anthony Jenkins, President, Coppin State University
Ronald Nowaczyk, President, Frostburg State University
Charles Wight, President, Salisbury University
Kim Schatzel, President, Towson University
Kurt Schmoke, President, University of Baltimore
Bruce E. Jarrell, Interim President, University of Maryland, Baltimore
Freeman A. Hrabowski III, President, University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Peter Goodwin, President, University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science
Wallace D. Loh, President University of Maryland, College Park
Heidi Anderson, President, University of Maryland Eastern Shore
Javier Miyares, President, University of Maryland Global Campus

Stewart Edelstein, Executive Director, Universities at Shady Grove
Mark Halsey, Executive Director, University System of Maryland at Hagerstown
Ben Latigo, Interim Executive Director, University System of Maryland at Southern Maryland


 
Contact: Mike Lurie
Phone: 301.445.2719
Email: mlurie@usmd.edu


Pines: Stand in Solidarity, Unite Against Injustice
President-designate Calls Acts of Violence Against Black Community Nationwide a ‘Stain’ Against UMD Values

By Maryland Today Staff  /  Jun 01, 2020

Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Email
Print this article
Campus aerial shot of Hornbake Library
President-designate Darryll J. Pines writes that the injustices against African Americans in the midst of a pandemic are a double blow to black and brown communities. "They cause additional pain and grief at a time when we are dealing with so many other challenges."
(Photo by John T. Consoli)

University of Maryland President-designate Darryll J. Pines sent the following email to the campus community this afternoon:

Dear University of Maryland Community:

On Wednesday morning, May 26, 2020, I woke up to go through my normal daily routine of getting prepared for the workday. But even before I could start my morning walk with my dog, my cellphone was already vibrating with texts and emails about something that had happened the evening before. Many colleagues, family members and friends had sent me links to the now-infamous video of yet another black man losing his life at the hands of law enforcement. This time, for allegedly using a counterfeit $20 bill at a local shop in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

I took a moment to click on the links and watch the more than nine-minute video of the last breath being sucked out of the body of Mr. George Floyd. As a black man, I screamed words that I cannot repeat here. As a father, I started to reflect on the safety of my son and daughter and on all the diverse communities who are negatively impacted by acts of injustice. I asked myself, what is wrong with our country when these incidents continue to happen time and time again?

In recent weeks we have again witnessed senseless acts of violence perpetrated against the black community. The tragic loss of lives—those of George Floyd in Minneapolis, and before that, the deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, Tony McDade and Sean Reed—due to racial violence is deeply saddening and a stain against the values that we personally hold, and that the University of Maryland, as an institution, cherishes.

The fact that these horrific acts have occurred in the midst of a pandemic is a double blow to black and brown communities. They cause additional pain and grief at a time when we are dealing with so many other challenges. But the shameful reality is that the virus has disproportionately affected communities of color. It has exposed the base inequities of our health care system and made painfully clear how those who have suffered so many other injustices for so long must also unequally bear the burden of this disease. These additional acts of racism and hatred bring into greater focus the injustices occurring in our nation.

The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., once said that:

"The ultimate measure of a man is not where one stands in moments of comfort and convenience but where one stands in times of challenge and controversy."

As a university community, we must not accept these latest incidents as inconsequential. We all must rise up and stand together to show our humanity to one another. We must remind ourselves of Dr. King’s words that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." Finally, we must heed the words of the late President John F. Kennedy, "what unites us is greater than what divides us."

Even though we are physically separated, now is the time to stand in solidarity and unite against any injustice.

Sincerely,

Darryll J. Pines
Glenn L. Martin Professor of Aerospace Engineering
President-Designate
University of Maryland

Tags:Campus & Community

Taking Action at UMass Amherst to Combat Racism: A Message from Nefertiti Walker, Interim Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
June 3, 2020
Dear Campus Community, 

Today, I write to you with a range of emotions. Fear for protesters, some of whom encounter fierce violence. Disappointment in our country for not reckoning with our intimate relationship with anti-Black racism. Frustrated at our institutions for failing to undo the institutionalized racism that we know to be true. 

For years, Black people and allies have been pleading for the end of racism and the violence that follows. Most recently, we cried out for change after the lost lives of Trayvon Martin, Tamir Rice, Michael Brown, Philando Castile, Eric Garner and Sandra Bland, and more recently Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and George Floyd. This list is not conclusive. This list is void of many lives lost to anti-Black racism, and countless other lives devastated by the omnipresence of our nation’s most pervasive disease, racism. 

We have been repeatedly challenged by this violence and by other disturbing acts – increased anti-Asian racism, growing xenophobia and escalating anti-Semitic attacks. This cannot, and will not, be our normal at UMass. We are hopeful and encouraged by the work we have been doing to combat racism and will continue to work tirelessly to undo it in our community. 

To that point, we are immediately getting to work with the following:

Respectful Workplace Training Series. In collaboration with the Office of Equity and Inclusion, Workplace Learning & Development and The Partnership for Worker Education, the purpose is to educate staff about resources available and supervisors (including faculty) on their responsibilities to ensure a university work environment grounded in antiracism, respect and inclusion.
Critical Incident Team. We are developing a triage team to respond consistently to critical campus issues and lead with humanity. More details to follow.
Campus Academy Initiative. The University of Massachusetts Police Department is applying for a team of campus and student leaders (including UMPD representation) to attend a three-day Campus Academy Initiative workshop in August 2020, offered by the Divided Community Project. The aim of the program is to immerse campus leaders in a curriculum aimed at strengthening and expanding campus-specific conflict-resolution capacity and practices. UMPD is committed to participating, as part of our community, in any training, seminar or effort to increase levels of understanding, prevention and responsiveness to critical issues like the ones we continue to see play out across our country.
Increased Data-driven Climate Assessments. We know that within our UMass community, we have micro cultures where people live – in their academic departments, classrooms and residence halls. We need to better understand these climates. Therefore, we will launch a series of assessments to measure and better understand the micro cultures that often impact our community most. This data will then be aggregated and live on the www.umass.edu/diversity website, providing transparency and the ability to inform the actions of the newly formed councils and task force below.
The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leadership Council. This council will convene immediately and be charged by the Chancellor and chaired by the Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. This group will meet regularly to assess, evaluate and advise about the university’s DEI policies and practices. Their meeting minutes will be uploaded to: www.umass.edu/diversity. 
The DEI Student Council. This will be co-chaired by the Senior Director of DEI  and the Assistant Chancellor of Advocacy, Inclusion and Support Programs. This group will meet with student DEI representatives to discuss and advance the most pressing student DEI issues. Similarly, their meeting minutes will be uploaded to: www.umass.edu/diversity.
The Task Force for Anti-racism. In response to the most recent anti-Black violence as well as the increase of other types of racism nationally, this group will be a collection of faculty, staff and students who will work to undo institutional racism in our community. They will be chaired or co-chaired by a combination of faculty, staff and students. More details to follow.
Finally, we will work with each major business unit on campus to set goals related to diversity (representation/under-representation), equity (access and opportunity), and inclusion (feeling welcome and sense of belonging). Leaders will be responsible for setting a culture of inclusion for all people in their area. Therefore, we will set and seek to meet DEI goals as they align with our campus strategic goal of inclusive excellence.

We encourage our students, staff and faculty to exercise their right to speak against the injustice they see in our society, and we implore you to join us in being part of the solutions. These resources will guide and support you in your quest for equity.

Racism, in its many forms, did not emerge overnight or in the past week. It has matured for hundreds of years. Therefore, it will take time and deliberate effort to confront. It will require intentional goal setting, data-informed decision making, and anti-racist action, to truly achieve our goal of inclusive excellence. 

Sincerely,

Nefertiti A. Walker, Ph.D.
Interim Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Chief Diversity Officer 
Driving Change and Reform Needed
Dear Faculty, Staff and Students:

Over the course of the past seven years, together our campus community has faced and overcome many difficult challenges. As we continue to grapple with COVID-19 and its harsh economic consequences, recent national events have revealed some ugly and enduring inequities in American society, sparking anxiety, upset and outrage. In a period of American history unclear and confused in direction and purpose, one thing is abundantly clear. We cannot solve problems we do not acknowledge. The pain and loss of this pandemic have not been evenly distributed in Memphis, in Tennessee, nor across the United States. The most vulnerable among us carry the majority of that burden. This pandemic has revealed decades-long and enduring economic and health-care inequities that cut along racial lines and are at the foundation of that vulnerability. That pain has only been magnified by recent hate-filled violence against African-American men.

As an institution of higher education in one of the most diverse communities in America, our University is committed to being part of the solution. We are a place of hope, healing and healthy debate. We have an identified set of core values that embrace fairness, equity and justice, and we are committed to living those on a daily basis, particularly when they are most needed. It is clear that Memphis needs us, and we are here to help. I will be reaching out to our campus to assist in facilitating the change and reform needed. I am proud to be a Memphian, and a part of a community that works together. Our University is committed to being a part of the solution and helping drive the change and reform needed.  

Regards, 

M. David Rudd, Ph.D., ABPP
President, University of Memphis
Distinguished University Professor of Psychology

Admissions

Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour
Academics

Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware
Athletics

gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media
Research

Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research
Support UofM

Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Administrative Support

President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology
Services
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation
UofM Global Explore Lambuth Campus
Follow UofM Online

Instagram
Facebook
twitter
Youtube
Linkedn
TNeCampus.info
Tennessee Transfer Pathway
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis
Important Notice
 Last Updated: 6/1/20
The University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000
The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.
We need to bring about change
May 29, 2020
I have watched and read in horror reports of the death of George Floyd in Minnesota. Many members of the University of Michigan community have reached out to me to express their heartache and anger that another unarmed African American has been killed by police, who have violated their duty to protect and serve.

I want to thank those of you who have shared your personal feelings on this tragedy. I know that your pain is very real and profound. Many members of our community are experiencing this tragedy in ways that are inseparable from their race and ethnicity – and in ways that I will never be able to fully and personally realize. For instance, our Chief Diversity Officer Robert Sellers has very poignantly written about his experiences today.

I condemn the actions that caused the tragic deaths of George Floyd, of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and of Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. There are far, far too many more examples of racism and violence against people of color from all across our nation, including in our surrounding community.

The reality and scope of this problem are pervasive. A 2018 study whose authors included U-M Institute for Social Research fellow Michael Esposito found that "the risk of being killed by police, relative to White men, is between 3.2 and 3.5 times higher for Black men." Thanks to U-M Political Science Prof. Christian Davenport, we know that the exercising of fundamental rights is treated differently, as "African American protest events are more likely to draw police presence, even when we control for the measures of behavioral threat."

At U-M, we must use our power to address major societal problems – especially those that diminish our society so tragically. This is clear in our mission.

Our mission is also why our work to enhance diversity, equity and inclusion must continue. The University of Michigan has a critical role to play and obligation to lead the kind of changes in our society that we all want to see. I know that our Division of Public Safety and Security is committed to being a continuing partner in this ongoing work. DEI will continue as a major focus of the institution throughout my presidency, beyond our initial five-year Strategic Plan. We must utilize our scholarship, the education and the engagement of our talented faculty, students, and staff to bring about change not only within the university, but also in our broader society. Our collective future depends on it.

During this difficult time, I urge anyone who needs support to access our university's resources.

Students on all three campuses can receive support through CAPS, the university's counseling and psychological services. All faculty and staff in Ann Arbor, Dearborn and Flint can access services through the Faculty and Staff Counseling and Consultation Office. Michigan Medicine faculty and staff can access resources through Office of Counseling and Workplace Resilience.
Skip to navigationSkip to content
Committees
Chancellor Appearance Request
Contact
Office of the Chancellor
University of Missouri

About Planning Inside Mizzou Remarks & Presentations Distinguished Leaders Lecture
June 4, 2020: Tigers leading change
Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Alumni,

Over the last several days, we have seen an outpouring of support for those who have faced racism, both in our community and throughout the country.

University leaders and I have sent notes in recent days voicing our sorrow over the recent injustices and tragic deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor. We have vowed to do more as we have met with numerous black students, staff and faculty who have described the immense toll that systemic discrimination and racism has taken on their confidence in justice, on their mental health and on their hope that true change will ever happen.

We have been watching closely the social media thread #BlackatMizzou on Twitter and Instagram since it began earlier this week and are listening to powerful testimonies from our previous and current students featured there. I can tell you my heart has been rocked by this experience as have many others, and those who shared these posts should know their experiences are valued and have not been ignored.

Each tweet is a sobering reminder of the ugliness many of you have faced. I have been discussing these comments with our deans, faculty and university leaders, and we are learning from the common themes shared while also looking into some specific cases mentioned. These stories of name calling, racist assumptions and lack of response to injustice illustrate to me that our work is far from done related to inclusion, diversity and equity. I wish I could have been there each time these incidents occurred to call out the perpetrators, to hold them accountable and to support those who’ve been affected. But, that’s not possible. So, I call upon each one of us to take the stand to confront discrimination when it happens and to provide care and compassion to those who have suffered from it.

Mizzou continues to be committed to creating an inclusive community where everyone can live, learn and work in an environment that supports and celebrates each individual. I am grateful to our many students, faculty and staff who have worked tirelessly for change at Mizzou. I assure you that we will not stop pressing, and we will strive to spread the responsibility from those who have shouldered the brunt of the work to the larger community. Over the last several years we have done a lot of planning and created some progress and action. We all must do more.

Our community must address this important work together. Some are asking for details of our progress in recent years. To that end, we are organizing community conversations soon to discuss what we have been doing and how we can build on that foundation for a better Mizzou. We will share details in the coming weeks.

On behalf of the faculty, department chairs, deans, provost and the staff, I confirm that we will take important positive actions.

We know our Tiger family will lead change.

Mun Y. Choi, Ph.D.

UM System President and interim MU Chancellor

University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211
573-882-2121

© 2020 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution.

Skip to navigationSkip to content
Committees
Chancellor Appearance Request
Contact
Office of the Chancellor
University of Missouri

About Planning Inside Mizzou Remarks & Presentations Distinguished Leaders Lecture
June 4, 2020: Tigers leading change
Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Alumni,

Over the last several days, we have seen an outpouring of support for those who have faced racism, both in our community and throughout the country.

University leaders and I have sent notes in recent days voicing our sorrow over the recent injustices and tragic deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor. We have vowed to do more as we have met with numerous black students, staff and faculty who have described the immense toll that systemic discrimination and racism has taken on their confidence in justice, on their mental health and on their hope that true change will ever happen.

We have been watching closely the social media thread #BlackatMizzou on Twitter and Instagram since it began earlier this week and are listening to powerful testimonies from our previous and current students featured there. I can tell you my heart has been rocked by this experience as have many others, and those who shared these posts should know their experiences are valued and have not been ignored.

Each tweet is a sobering reminder of the ugliness many of you have faced. I have been discussing these comments with our deans, faculty and university leaders, and we are learning from the common themes shared while also looking into some specific cases mentioned. These stories of name calling, racist assumptions and lack of response to injustice illustrate to me that our work is far from done related to inclusion, diversity and equity. I wish I could have been there each time these incidents occurred to call out the perpetrators, to hold them accountable and to support those who’ve been affected. But, that’s not possible. So, I call upon each one of us to take the stand to confront discrimination when it happens and to provide care and compassion to those who have suffered from it.

Mizzou continues to be committed to creating an inclusive community where everyone can live, learn and work in an environment that supports and celebrates each individual. I am grateful to our many students, faculty and staff who have worked tirelessly for change at Mizzou. I assure you that we will not stop pressing, and we will strive to spread the responsibility from those who have shouldered the brunt of the work to the larger community. Over the last several years we have done a lot of planning and created some progress and action. We all must do more.

Our community must address this important work together. Some are asking for details of our progress in recent years. To that end, we are organizing community conversations soon to discuss what we have been doing and how we can build on that foundation for a better Mizzou. We will share details in the coming weeks.

On behalf of the faculty, department chairs, deans, provost and the staff, I confirm that we will take important positive actions.

We know our Tiger family will lead change.

Mun Y. Choi, Ph.D.

UM System President and interim MU Chancellor

University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211
573-882-2121

© 2020 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution.

Chancellor Green: 'Racism in any form is wrong and has no place in our lives'
Nebraska students hand out "Hate Will Never Win" T-shirts in the Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center before a campus rally in February 2018.
Craig Chandler | University Communication
Nebraska students hand out "Hate Will Never Win" T-shirts in the Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center before a campus rally in February 2018
Editor's Note — Chancellor Ronnie Green was among higher education leaders who responded to the national protests spurred by the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. The chancellor's message, which is below, was released May 30 via his Twitter account to connect immediately with students, faculty, staff and the broader community.

Chancellor Ronnie Green delivers his third State of the University address on Jan. 15. The speech examined the university's 150-year history and charted a course to 2025 and beyond.
Craig Chandler | University Communication
Chancellor Ronnie Green
Jane and I are sickened by the horrific injustice in Minneapolis, and the other forms of injustice that we know we don't see first-hand. Our hearts ache for the senseless loss of George Floyd and his family — and too many others.

Racism in any form is wrong and has no place in our lives, our communities, or institutions. Yet it remains.

Those of us entrusted to leading institutions must stay committed to truly listening, truly learning and to understanding our own bias. We need to encourage honest conversations, big and small, that can help bridge this divide and address deeply embedded histories of exclusion.

I hope and continue to believe that higher education, particularly institutions focused on access, can play a positive role in these conversations.

Review the chancellor's message and responses it received on Twitter.
A message of solidarity from UNLV President Marta Meana
MAY. 31, 2020
Dear colleagues and students,

It is with a heavy heart that I reach out to you in light of the appalling death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis Police. This is just the last in a far too long list of similar atrocities and there is only so much we can bear.

UNLV stands in solidarity with our African American faculty, staff, and students in denouncing this heinous act, in expecting accountability, and in demanding systemic change. The distress that this has caused in our community runs wide and deep. Racism is a far greater long-term threat to this country of ours than any virus. We need to confront it head on and together.

Universities have a responsibility to be beacons in the journey out of this unacceptable state of affairs. Let us double down on our efforts. We need to do this for each other. We need to do this for ourselves.

With sadness and hope,

Marta Meana, Ph.D.
UNLV President
I can’t breathe—again

As we gathered our thoughts at having to address, once again, the reality of the brutal death of an unarmed black man, George Floyd, we must categorically condemn the racism, abuse of power and brutality that led to his death. Mr. Floyd, who pleaded repeatedly for his life—I can’t breathe—eerily evocative of the equally violent death of Eric Garner and so many other black lives, is yet another deeply troubling lost life that ought to serve as a day of reckoning for all of us. As a nation, not only have we not resolved the historically deep wounds of structural racism, inequality, injustice and violence in our country, but those divisions, dramatically intensified in recent times, significantly challenge our democracy. We know from extensive evidence that hate and racial violence have increased to frightening levels in recent years. Let us also bear witness to the fact that in a few months we will be marking the one year anniversary of the El Paso mass killings, one of the deadliest anti-Latino and anti-emigrant hate crimes of recent years; a year ago, also, the shooting in the Poway synagogue took place; increasing attacks on mosques, and many others. These sobering realities must continue guiding our educational mandate on equity and inclusion through meaningful collaborations and much needed healing. Our deepest sense of solidarity to the family of Mr. George Floyd. Our particular support goes out to our Black students, faculty and staff in these somber moments.

Sincerely,

Marc A. Johnson
President
and
Eloisa Gordon-Mora
University Diversity and Inclusion Officer
President, Provost call for focus on core values in wake of George Floyd's death Minneapolis
June 1, 2020

Dear UNH Community,

Like virtually all Americans, we reacted with horror at the recent death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. This was particularly painful coming on the heels of the shooting of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. While the circumstances of these deaths were different, they all underscore the risks to black people interacting with police or simply going about their daily lives (as was demonstrated vividly by what happened to Christian Cooper in New York City). It is beyond belief that more than 50 years after the passage of the Civil Rights Act, nearly 30 years after Rodney King’s beating, six years after the shooting of Michael Brown and the choking death of Eric Garner, tragedies like this continue to occur. It is clear that, as former President Obama said in a recent statement, "If we want our children to grow up in a nation that lives up to its highest ideals, we can and must do better." Our hearts go out to our African American students, faculty, staff and alumni who are particularly affected by these events.

What is the responsibility of a public university like the University of New Hampshire in this situation? We have an obligation to fight ignorance, intolerance and bias, and to teach equality, respect and kindness—these are core values at UNH . The university is where we tackle societal challenges and work together to find solutions. This is founded on our mission to support the bedrock American principle that we are all created equal, and that all of us, regardless of any differences, should enjoy equal rights, opportunities and freedoms. It is fair to say that this passion for freedom is particularly acute in New Hampshire. We must ensure that our students and the whole UNH community deeply understand this shared commitment to our fellow citizens, to better understand when it has been violated. Our recent climate survey revealed that we have our own work to do in this area, which we will continue to do.

We cannot remain silent in the face of the trauma that these events inflict on marginalized communities across the country. We are united in our rejection of hate and intolerance, and call upon all in our community to support each other and those who are surely feeling the weight of these events. We all must renew our commitment to providing a safe and inclusive environment for everyone at UNH, including in interactions with UNH and Durham police. UNH Police Chief Paul Dean has worked extensively to build strong positive relationships with underrepresented students and has provided direction and training to his officers to do the same. Durham Police Chief Dave Kurz has done this as well.

As a research university, we also have the responsibility to address significant national issues. We will conduct a review of our research portfolio and look for opportunities to stimulate and support research on this important national problem. We hope that research can help us to identify practical steps that can be taken to protect the well-being and safety of all Americans while also improving our own racial understanding.

In the coming weeks, we will be meeting with and creating opportunities for faculty, staff and students to come together and share their input and guidance on responding to this challenge. Even in the face of the pandemic and the need to work and learn remotely, we must not lose sight of the importance of all aspects of our mission. In the aftermath of experiencing or witnessing trauma, it is normal to experience a range of feelings and emotions, such as shock, fear, sadness, anger, helplessness or guilt. For those members of our community who are feeling the trauma of this most acutely, we want to remind you that services continue to be available including: Psychological and Counseling Services (PACS); the Beauregard Center (formerly OMSA); Health and Wellness; and the Office of Community Equity and Diversity.

This is in so many ways a challenging time in America, but we as a people have risen to challenges before, and we will find ways to meet this one. We will be in touch with more detail on opportunities for education, research and conversation soon. In the meantime, our wish for all of you is health and safety.

James W. Dean, Jr.
President

Wayne Jones
Vice President and Provost
Leaders at The University of New Mexico have issued strong statements
condemning the brutal killing of George Floyd by police officers in Minnesota
on Memorial Day and the actions of those seeking to prompt further violence at
ensuing protests.
"Watching what is happening across our nation, I join the many voices who are
outraged and condemn not only the actions of the officers who killed George
Floyd, but police brutality against any and all communities of color," said UNM
President Garnett S. Stokes.
Following reports that extremist groups were using civil protests against police
brutality to further elicit violence, President Stokes stated that "peaceful protest
is a healthy way for people to express the hurt, fear and anger these types of
actions incite." She went on to say, "It is abhorrent that white nationalist groups
are taking cover behind legitimate national protests concerning George Floyd and
police brutality to provoke violence against black businesses and society at large."
UNM Police Chief Kevin McCabe issued the
following statement:
"What transpired in Minneapolis this past Memorial Day was appalling and
disgusting – in my opinion, this does not represent American law enforcement and
those who committed this heinous act or stood by and did nothing to intervene
lack the humanity, integrity, and honor to wear the badge of a police officer.
Their senseless actions have stained every professional law enforcement officer
who swore an oath to protect and defend the communities they serve but it is
also a clear call for all of us to stand against this type of abuse of power.
As a police chief, to see this type of brutality makes me sick but I am confident
that justice will prevail in this case. I, along with every member of The University
of New Mexico Police Department, not only strive to do our very best every day
to protect and serve those within our community but also be examples of police
officers that our community expects and deserves."
May 30, 2020
ALL UNIVERSITY MESSAGE
Message from campus leaders on events in Minneapolis
Carolina is committed to fostering an environment whereby the personal rights, lives and dignity of every member of our community matters.

Posted by University Communications, Saturday, May 30th, 2020
Bell Tower
The UNC Bell Tower on the campus of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill October 6, 2016. (Photo by Jon Gardiner/UNC-Chapel Hill)
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Pinterest
Share via Email
Print Friendly
Like so many of you, we have seen the recent events in Minneapolis where George Floyd, an unarmed Black man, died while in the custody of police officers. We denounce the actions of the police officers and support the decision to hold those responsible accountable.

This incident comes on the heels of similar acts of violence against Black people across the country. As we struggle to comprehend these events, we share your sadness, grief and frustration, and recognize the pain the recurrence of such senseless acts of violence and racism causes for so many members of our community. We add our voices to those calling for transparency and accountability.  

We are committed to fostering an environment whereby the personal rights, lives and dignity of every member of our university community matters. The events of this week underscore the important work of our Campus Safety Commission,and we are grateful for their continued efforts and collaborations with campus leadership.   

As we build our community together, even while many of us are apart, we hope that we all take some time to check in on each other. Next week, the University Office for Diversity and Inclusion, which seeks to unite our Carolina community and foster a sense of belonging and safety for all, will offer a space on its website for #YourVoiceMatters, where you may share your thoughts, perspectives and feelings anonymously. We hope you will participate.  

We recognize the stress these events cause members of our community, especially the Black community, and encourage anyone needing help to utilize the following  available resources. For students, you can contact the Office of the Dean of Students or Counseling and Psychological Services.  The Employee Assistance Program is available for faculty and staff.  

In solidarity and with unwavering resolve, 

Kevin M. Guskiewicz
Chancellor  

Robert A. Blouin
Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost 

Sibby Anderson Thompkins 
Special Assistant to the Chancellor and Provost
Interim Chief Diversity Officer 

George Battle
Vice Chancellor for Institutional Integrity and Risk Management 

David Perry
Associate Vice Chancellor and Chief of UNC Police 
Saturday, May 30, 2020
Dear Niner Nation,

Like so many of you and others around the nation, I was heartbroken by George Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on Monday night and the horrifying video of his final moments. The recent killings of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery are further examples of the systemic racial injustice that continues to plague our country.

I want to acknowledge the pain, trauma, and frustration that many of our students, faculty, and staff are feeling. These events have a powerful and personal impact on members of our community. Last night in Charlotte, we witnessed the community's unrest in response to the death of George Floyd as many people organized in protest of the ongoing racism against the Black community. 

I join with others to ask: What can I do? What can we do as a University that is committed to creating an equitable and safe environment for our students, faculty, and staff in one of the most diverse and vibrant urban cities in America?

As a community of educators and scholars, we hold a special responsibility to raise our voices to condemn the violence against Black people, other people of color, and other historically marginalized identities. It is up to us to lead, modeling civility, respect, and holding true to the values of diversity and inclusion that ensure all members of our community will thrive. At UNC Charlotte, I want us to question why incidents such as these occur, and what role we can play in creating an equitable and just world. We cannot accept apathy or indifference or silence; otherwise, we allow hatred, prejudice, and intolerance to grow.

One of the many special qualities of Niner Nation is the rich diversity of our community, feedback we consistently hear from students about why they love this University. For our African-American students, faculty, and staff, know that your Niner Nation family is here to support you. We always want to ensure that everyone feels welcome on campus, and that we are consistently providing a safe and inclusive environment.

If you need support during this time, please do not hesitate to reach out to the resources available to you. 

Counseling services are available to faculty and staff through the Employee Assistance Program and to students through the Christine F. Price Center for Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). These services will continue throughout the summer. Our Office of Identity, Equity and Engagement staff members are also available to support members of our community.  

The Counseling and Psychological Services Center is hosting a student-centered Healing and Empowerment Gathering on WebEx to develop self-care, coping strategies, and connection for Black students who have been impacted by racial injustice from 2 p.m. - 3:30 p.m., Thursday, June 4. You may register here. 

Unfortunately, as we know all too well, racism and bigotry will not end overnight. But we will never create a community and world where everyone is equally valued and protected unless we speak out, show up, and advocate for the rights of all.

Sincerely,

Chancellor Philip L. Dubois
Philip L. Dubois
Chancellor
We Must Stand Together – An Official Notice from the President
Monday, June 1, 2020

Dear UNT faculty and staff,

We are all deeply disturbed and saddened by the tragic events that led to the murder of George Floyd. Once again, we ask why an unarmed black man was killed by a police officer while colleagues looked on without intervening. People of color and white allies everywhere in our country have shown their shock and outrage through protests, and the collective rage people feel has led to more violent actions while we wait for answers. But no answers have been given. 

Thoughtful people everywhere want to see justice and racial equity, and we all hope and pray for an end to the bitter institutional racism to which we all bear witness. While there have been cries of condemnation for these horrific events, there has not been a cohesive national dialogue, and I fear the violent reactions we see are creating yet deeper divides. 

For some of our community members, these events feel all too familiar and there is concern that this could happen to them. Here in Denton, and at UNT, we are not immune to the challenges that the Black Community and law enforcement are facing. A former Black student was stopped at night last week by our campus police for not having a safety light on his bike. After our police confirmed that he had an outstanding warrant, this young man attempted to flee and was arrested after a brief struggle. This is an all too common scene in modern America and calls for all of us to do better as we negotiate the nexus of law enforcement and fear. 

In the fog of peaceful protests and with cities in flames, most of us are isolated from our normal campus connections and, lacking normal dialogue, we respond by listening to emotionally charged and often inaccurate social media. We take sides, and it becomes so easy to "like"or comment in ways that dehumanize those whose views don't match our own.

Before the COVID-19 crisis, we started to take a harder look at our culture, and the impact of discrimination and racism on our campus. That dialogue, and the healthy response to becoming a more intentionally inclusive campus, largely stopped as we took on yet another crisis. Today, I am calling on everyone in our community to show our caring and compassionate values. It is a time to come together – to listen – and to have the difficult and uncomfortable conversations we need to become the inclusive and caring community we aspire to be.

This week, I am inviting our community to rekindle these discussions. Our university will host two Black Lives Matter President's Virtual Town Halls with the first one set for students from 2 to 3:30 p.m. Friday, June 5. The second one is for faculty and staff and will be hosted from 2 to 3:30 p.m. Monday, June 8. The discussions will be framed around the three questions: How are we feeling? How does this relate to my experience at UNT? How can we move forward? Community members can ask questions during the event or send me questions in advance to untpresident@unt.edu.

As a higher education community, we want peace and racial justice as we continue honestly reckoning with our past. I hope you will join me and other campus leaders in this critical conversation that will help us return to campus as a stronger, more united community that celebrates our diversity, caring nature and commitment to a community where everyone feels equally valued.

Respectfully,

Neal Smatresk
UNT President
George Floyd’s tragic death cries out for justice and a recommitment to fight racism. Recalling the image of Father Hesburgh and Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. locked hand-in-hand in 1964, we pray, on this Feast of Pentecost: Come, Holy Spirit, inspire us to work for justice, solidarity and a healing of divisions." 
May 31, 2020

Ninety-nine years ago today, blood began to flow down Black Wall Street and the Tulsa Race Massacre ensued, marking one of the most tragic events in the history of our state and nation. And now, nearly a century later, we continue to live with the same violence and vitriol. The recent killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and George Floyd are stark examples of black lives lost due to senseless brutality. We know that racism in all of its forms, explicit and implicit, is never more unfair than when it leads to the needless loss of a life. To become the country we know we can be, we must honestly address the issues that underlie these societal divisions and make real, systemic change. I urge our entire OU family to lend support, advocacy, and love to the marginalized black members of our own community. Together, we are stronger.

Joseph Harroz, Jr.
President  
Recognize today’s challenges; provide comfort and care
June 1, 2020

Colleagues, 

If anything is certain in these very uncertain times, it’s that racism exists in our society.

So what does one say when it seems like there might not be anything one can do to immediately fix things? Under normal circumstances, we might hold one another or offer words of encouragement, anything to show that we care. We would be present with one another. Yet, we are denied that at this moment because of the COVID-19 pandemic.

A collection of recent events – from the newly launched investigation into the slaying of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia to the black birdwatcher in Central Park who was threatened by a white woman to the brutal killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis – have left many of us feeling hopeless, scared, and exhausted.

My request here is that we all, faculty in particular, provide extra flexibility for members of the community who are at their limit because of the ongoing inequities involving so many others. That these challenges around race are occurring in the face of the challenges we are seeing from the pandemic makes it even worse. It is OK to acknowledge our exhaustion, as the coronavirus has pushed our community hard, and we have risen to the occasion beyond what nearly anyone could have imagined.

We are exhausted, but we are resilient, and we are getting there. But the circumstances of the last few days, as well as the general climate around race and justice over the preceding years, decades, and indeed centuries brings into bright relief the continuing inequities within our society. The civil unrest around the George Floyd killing has ripped open the wounds and threatened to grind our exhaustion into despair.

What words can I offer to ameliorate these feelings? None that can authentically speak to the true feelings that only the lived experience of the individual can truly validate. Our faculty, staff, and students of color – particularly our black students – are feeling scared, angry, and they are questioning what the world is doing to address injustice.

Not enough. Never enough.

We each sit with our own thoughts at this moment. We cannot hug each other when we need it most. But what we can do is acknowledge that we are going through this together, and that we must support each other as we can. But we must also recognize that different members of the community will be suffering more than others, and we must recognize that that suffering is born from each individual’s experience and life path.

So, as we bring this term to a close, I request that all faculty recognize that students may be going through a particularly tough period that makes it difficult for them to focus on their schoolwork. As you know, we have already instituted a flexible pass/no-pass structure for all students in all courses. This should provide students with flexibility and solace as they finish out their work. However, I also ask all faculty to be very open if a student requests that they might need a little more time to finish off an assignment that is due this week and to do so without question.

Let’s also make sure we accommodate and care for each other. Our work this spring has required an unprecedented level of flexibility and generosity of spirit. I am very grateful for everyone’s hard work in making that generosity a hallmark of the UO community. Indeed, I sense that we have always felt it as one of our core principles. But now we can be assured that it is a rock upon which we will continue to mount a response to each and every challenge—and a rapidly changing world—together.

Sincerely,

Patrick Phillips
Provost and Senior Vice President
Statement on the death of George Floyd
May 30, 2020
Amy Gutmann, President

Once again our nation mourns. The tragic and senseless death of George Floyd is a vivid reminder of the inequalities and unacceptable indignities that so many of our citizens constantly endure. The events in Minneapolis this week should lead everyone to recognize how much more work our society must do to realize liberty and justice for all. As a nation we have much work to do.

While the entire Penn community weeps, and our hearts are filled with sadness for this senseless loss of life, we should remember the importance of Penn’s commitment to doing our part to create a more inclusive and mutually respectful environment and society free from discrimination and deprivation.

I especially want Penn’s African American students, faculty, and staff to know how much they and their contributions to our community are treasured. It is particularly important at this difficult time that Penn’s students of color know their University supports them, which we unequivocally do. While we may be apart physically at this point in time, we are truly together in spirit.

We all long for the day when we never again bear witness to such a needless death. Our prayers are for the Floyd family, and for a healing of our nation’s soul. Let all of us in the Penn community use this moment to recommit, from the deepest corners of our hearts, to creating a living and learning environment that is truly safe and welcoming for all.
Statement on Racial Injustice and the Death of George Floyd
June 2, 2020
Dear Members of the University Community: 

It is impossible to forget the image of George Floyd, gasping for air as a police officer who is sworn to protect and defend calmly kneels on his neck until he dies. It is both a shocking scene of violence that should never happen and a potent reminder that it continues to happen all the time.

The painful truth is that persistent and systemic racism continues to fuel a deep injustice toward African Americans. The familiarity of this tragedy has ignited widespread protests and demonstrations—not only across our country, but across the globe.

We are outraged because it is outrageous. How many times must we witness these blatant examples of injustice, hatred, brutality and discrimination before we resolve to change things?  

This is a time for demonstrating solidarity with our African American community. To the University of Pittsburgh’s African American students, faculty, staff and alumni: We stand with you in demanding better and are committed to working with you to make meaningful changes.    

Unfortunately, grief and anger are emotions too easily exploited. Some are happy to create confusion, sow conflict and incite violence and ultimately erode our fundamental rights to peaceably gather and demand real change. This, too, is a painfully familiar pattern. Against a rising toll of injury, death and recrimination, we stand to lose our solidarity—replacing it with ever-deepening divisions.  

Do we have to go down this road?

In this moment of raw grief and anger, we must plot a path forward. We must find ways to build bridges, listen and empathize—even when it is uncomfortable. And we must demand better of our leaders, holding them accountable by voting and pushing to reform the laws and institutions of our democracy. Working together, we have enormous power to realize change.

But this is also a time to turn the lens inward and consider our institution’s own role in perpetuating unfair structures and systems. A university is not an ivory tower but an extension of society—a place dedicated to advancing knowledge for everyone’s gain. Racism degrades our pursuit of true equality, liberty and justice, and it undermines our ability to create opportunity through teaching, research and service. Our university must become a better, more equitable place, and we can do more.

These local efforts may seem like small acts in the face of a national civil crisis, but they can catalyze powerful change. The University of Pittsburgh is a longstanding leader in our region. Yet, for all of our remarkable accomplishments, African Americans living within the Cathedral of Learning’s shadow are still confronting an alarming opportunity gap. We can expand our efforts to translate our work into practice and spur a local renaissance in our surrounding neighborhoods and communities.

Reshaping our university to be more diverse, inclusive and just—while also expanding our reach and impact in promoting social justice—is a significant effort, and we will need to resource and sustain this transformation over time. Because of this, I am putting our nearly complete strategic planning process—which aims to chart Pitt’s course over the next five years—on hold. This pause will give us time to incorporate specific strategies to strengthen our commitments to racial equity and justice. I will need your help in identifying the most promising initiatives in this final plan, and I hope you will participate.  

To jumpstart this work, we are scheduling and planning a number of opportunities to convene virtually so that we can share ideas, experiences and expertise related to eliminating racism and injustice near and far. In the days ahead, we must continue to stand in solidarity as we work to forge a better, more equitable future for all.  

Respectfully, 

Patrick Gallagher
Black Lives Matter: A GSO Perspective
Aerial view of the URI Narragansett Bay Campus
June 4, 2020
A statement from URI Graduate School of Oceanography Dean Bruce Corliss.
I am writing to follow up my statement last week in On the Waterfront should you not have had the opportunity to read it. The senseless death of George Floyd has created despair and anger across the country and, as the URI Senior Leadership Team stated in a recent email, is a reminder of the oppression and injustice still too prevalent in our society. The Graduate School of Oceanography and the University of Rhode Island are committed to a more just and equitable society and university community. I write to re-confirm that commitment to promote and respect diversity and justice for all within our campus and within the nation as we struggle to address systemic problems within our society and across the country.

The death of George Floyd and long-standing anti-black racism, together with a lack of progress to address the roots of these crimes, have led to frustration and anger generated by police brutality, racial injustice and a culture among some that condones violence. This anger is also based on societal and structural racism that has pervaded the fabric of America. Societal racism includes inequalities in income/wealth distribution, availability of health care and affordable health insurance, and educational opportunities, and is perpetuated not only by individuals and institutions, but by lawmakers passing legislation that precludes or limits opportunity to minority communities and, in particular, to Black Americans. Politics matter. These societal and financial inequities have existed for a very long time, and the lack of progress to address these inequities is at the core of the problem that the country faces today.

GSO has actively made efforts to attract minority faculty and students in general, and specifically African Americans, to join GSO and will continue to do so. In addition, professional societies have fostered and reinforced the need to increase underrepresented minorities in the sciences, and in particular Black Americans. But, clearly we as an institution and a discipline must hold ourselves accountable and do better. It is time to reflect upon and then redouble our efforts to ensure that current and prospective faculty, students and staff of color feel that they belong and are supported.

The GSO faculty voted last year to remove the GRE test requirement in graduate applications, as this has been shown to be a bias against minority students. This year a NOAA proposal was submitted to recruit and provide support to summer students from the University of Maryland Eastern Shore, a Historically Black College and University (HBCU), as part of our CINAR effort, an effort that follows a commitment we made last year when we submitted the Cooperative Institute proposal. We also reached out this year to another HBCU institution, Elizabeth City University in North Carolina, to inquire about their possible interest in joining the East Coast Oceanographic Consortium with the goal of developing a pipeline of underrepresented students at GSO and other ECOC institutions. In an effort to increase the diversity of future oceanographers, GSO’s NSF-REU program (SURFO) is committed to recruiting students from underrepresented groups. Recruiting at HBCUs and Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs), attending conferences focused on scientists from underrepresented groups (SACNAS) and forming a partnership with the Puerto Rico Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation have begun to effect change. Last summer, half of our SURFO student participants were from underrepresented groups. We look forward to next week when a new cohort begins, with almost half the young scientists from underrepresented groups. 

These efforts do not address the inequities and injustices that presently exist with structural racism in America, but are examples of our commitment to recruit and welcome Black students, students of color and other minorities to oceanography with the goal of promoting equity within the science community.

This is the time to address questions of inequity, justice and the rights of all individuals in our society. It is a time for reflection and for discussion, but it is also a time to develop and execute plans to address these issues. Recognizing that the scarcity of Black oceanographers is a result of an unjust K-12 educational system, a key goal of GSO’s outreach efforts is to prioritize access for underrepresented communities to ocean science. GSO will continue to spark partnerships with under-resourced schools throughout Rhode Island and minority serving institutions across the country. We are emboldened to strengthen these efforts.

As part of that effort, GSO will help make meaningful partnerships with minority serving institutions within the East Coast Oceanographic Consortium to develop opportunities for Black and minority students. This summer, we will also share on the GSO website opportunities for discussion on systemic racism offered by the URI’s Office of Community, Equity and Diversity.

There have been many thoughtful statements across the country that address recent disturbing racist acts and the need to confront racial injustice and the culture that fosters it. I would like to share one by Dr. Sudip S.Parikh, CEO of the AAAS, that is an insightful statement about the need to come together in the science community to address the challenges that we are all facing. 

GSO is committed to moving forward in a thoughtful and meaningful way in the days and years to come. Please reach out to me and other GSO leaders if you would like to express concerns or suggestions.

Sincerely,

Bruce H. Corliss
Dean, URI Graduate School of Oceanography
The University of Rochester
Search Rochester.edu
Office of the President
About Sarah Mangelsdorf Messages Contact Us Past Presidents Inauguration 
 BACK TO SARAH C. MANGELSDORF MESSAGES
Flying the University Flag at Half-staff to Honor George Floyd
JUNE 4, 2020
The past months have been challenging for all of us, and the last few weeks especially have laid bare the challenges that we as a society and as a University are facing with respect to the blight of systemic racism and racial injustice. The leadership of this institution is committed to candid conversations, to listening, and to real and effective action to address the concerns of our black students, faculty, staff, and alumni and their allies. And we recognize that this must be a shared commitment. We will be sending a broader message on this essential topic shortly.

Today, we are flying the University of Rochester flag on the Eastman Quadrangle and at the Medical Center at half-staff to commemorate today’s memorial service for George Floyd and as a step to demonstrating our public commitment to anti-racism in every area of this institution. We are all feeling the anguish of injustice today. I stand with you in sorrow and anger, and look forward to joining with you in doing the work that must be done.

Sincerely,

Sarah C. Mangelsdorf
President

FOR: StudentsParents & FamiliesFacultyStaffAlumniLocal Community
Text Only Contact Us Newscenter Calendar Futurity
River Campus (mailing address): 500 Joseph C. Wilson Blvd., Rochester, NY 14627

River Campus (GPS/maps): 252 Elmwood Ave., Rochester, NY

Medical Center: 601 Elmwood Ave., Rochester, NY 14642

Eastman School: 26 Gibbs St., Rochester, NY 14604

Maps & Directions

FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagramLinkedInTumblrFuturityMore social
EMERGENCY COPYRIGHT ACCESSIBILITY NONDISCRIMINATION & TITLE IX© University of Rochester 1996-2020
A MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT BOB CASLEN
May 31, 2020

With heavy hearts, we mourn the horrific killing of George Floyd at the hands of a police officer while three other officers stood by in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Our thoughts go out to Floyd's family and to the families of all those who have been the victims of violent murders fueled by racism and hatred in our country. These events are a stark reminder of the dark divisions that continue to run through our society, the legacy of a dark past that we have not yet fully reconciled. We must acknowledge these divisions and commit to becoming a more just and equitable society.

We stand in solidarity with the African American community, as these events have only compounded the sense of grief, fear, and loss brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. Here as well, we are reminded of the systemic biases that shape our realities. It is our collective responsibility to challenge these institutional inequities and to demand better for ourselves and for future generations.

As Gamecocks, let us be leaders in these efforts. Our Carolinian Creed calls on us to respect the dignity of all persons, to respect the rights and property of others, to discourage bigotry, while striving to learn from differences in people, ideas, and opinions. Violence and hateful rhetoric are not reflective of these values. If we are to begin the process of healing the wounds of racism, hate and bigotry that have brought us to this current tipping point, we must engage one another in thoughtful dialogue about our individual and collective experiences. We must do the work of educating ourselves about the harmful impact of racism and discrimination in all of its manifestations.

Anti-discrimination and anti-harassment training are currently provided to UofSC faculty and staff and required of all students who are new to the Columbia campus. And multiple units are engaged in advancing diversity and inclusion initiatives across our campus. However, given this pivotal moment in which we find ourselves, we will intensify these efforts to ensure that we are equipping our students, faculty and staff with the tools needed to effectively navigate the current tensions in our society. To this end, we are assembling a team to work on the implementation of a new diversity module that will be required of all UofSC freshmen as part of their orientation process beginning in the 2020-2021 academic year. And we will amplify the training available to all students, faculty and staff to ensure that we have the resources needed to foster a campus culture that is reflective of our Creed.

In his 1963 "Letter from a Birmingham Jail,"Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. acknowledged the "interrelatedness of all communities and states,"noting that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny."Let us turn our anger into action, demanding justice where there is injustice, peace where there is violence, and love where there is hate. Let the suffocation of this moment be the impetus for change.

Campus Resources:

To report incidents of bias or hate, submit a Bias and Hate Incident Form

UofSC Counseling & Psychiatry: 803-777-5223 

UofSC Police Department: 803-777-4215

 

Tracey L. Weldon
Interim Chief Diversity Officer, Office of the Provost
Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences

Bob Caslen
President                                                                               
Message from USF President Steven C. Currall
MAY 30, 2020UNIVERSITY NEWS
To Members of the USF Community:

I believe I speak for the entire University of South Florida community when I express our deep sadness over recent events in Minneapolis and around the country. The deaths of two black men, George Floyd in Minneapolis and Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, should prompt us to pause and think about how racism impacts all of our lives.

Although neither of those individuals were affiliated with the University of South Florida, events such as this have a powerful impact on people of every background and in every community.  The impact is magnified in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has so badly shaken us all.

As we work to help each other understand what has happened -- if we can ever truly understand -- I find myself reflecting on the Principles of Community we aspire to at USF;  to treat each other with respect and dignity, refrain from displays of inappropriate anger or intimidating conduct, shun epithets or abusive language, find effective means to disagree, and to persuade and to inform through dialogue.

For our students, faculty and staff, I want to remind them of the resources available through the university’s Office of Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the USF Counseling Center. I urge you to seek out their support.

I believe we must support and care for each other during times like these and not forget that each of us is empowered to stand up to injustice whenever and wherever it occurs.

Thank you.

Steve Currall

Steven C. Currall, Ph.D.
President and Professor
University of South Florida
Note to Community from President Folt
May 31, 2020

Dear Trojan Community,

I write today, hoping you and your families are well and safe, yet knowing that many of you are not; your hearts are aching, and you are searching for answers, actions, and hope. The horrific deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and so many others, together with the demonstrations and unrest sweeping our nation are tearing at us all.  

These violent acts come at a time when our world has already been profoundly disrupted by COVID-19. And many of those hit the hardest are people of color, particularly African Americans – the very same people in communities already burdened by a history of prejudice, poverty, and especially racism.  

Many of you have told me that you are feeling sad, angry, desperate and despairing as you face such grave injustices and the escalation of tensions, and you are trying to find a way forward.

It weighs heavily on all of us. But we are Trojans, united as a university dedicated to the fundamental principles of equality and inclusion, education, and discovery for the good of humanity. We can make a positive difference, as we have for more than 100 years.

I don’t have the answers today, but we will continue to seek them together. I know that we can effect change – in our community, our city, and our nation. Now, more than ever, we need to rely on each other and help each other and our neighbors through these times. We are a community strengthened by the diversity that you bring – we are the students who want to change the world, the faculty dedicated to inspiring young leaders, the staff who keep the university running, the healthcare workers on the front lines, the social workers, the business leaders, the community organizers, the creators, entrepreneurs, teachers, and scholars our nation needs, and so much more. We must be there to support our communities. And, we know we can.

This moment is our call to action. It will be challenging to confront directly issues like racism in our community, but we must. We have started discussions with our student, faculty, staff, and alumni organizations, our civic leaders and our neighbors in the community. We recognize the need for continued conversations around policing, and our chief of the USC Department of Public Safety will be partnering with our campus and broader community to find collective answers to persistent inequities. We will engage you to break down silos that separate us, encourage thoughtful debate, and protect the dignity of every individual in our community. Together, we will stand for justice and embrace a culture of respect for all.

With respect and admiration,

Carol L. Folt
President

Adobe PDF version
His Name is George Floyd
May 30, 2020
We will step forward and show the world what kindness, equity, and inclusion for all people can look like

George Floyd. His name is George Floyd and he should be alive today. Sadly, the list of black people in America subjected to violence is long and getting longer. We grieve for their moms, dads, spouses, sons, daughters, brothers, sisters, grandparents whose loss is unimaginable. We grieve for their friends and neighbors and their community. I condemn brutality in all its forms, but it is most egregious in the hands of those who have taken an oath to protect.

My heart aches for so many as senseless acts of racism and violence continue. The pain and fear are evident in the protests, media, and conversations. The pain and fear are real for so many members of our campus community. We should all be angry, and for many anger has been replaced with exhaustion.

We must do better. Vol is a Verb, and action is important. We will continue the hard work to create a campus where everyone matters and belongs. Where anyone can study, work, learn, teach, jog, and live their daily life without fear. Where education becomes the great equalizer for anyone who wants it. Creating an environment for all Vols to succeed is a responsibility we all share.

Many groups have been working for weeks on making our campus safe for the return of students in the fall—safe from COVID-19. Some ask how is that in 2020 we still face the need to make sure that students, faculty, and staff are safe from racism. Black friends and colleagues have expressed to me that they are tired of having this conversation only to have it followed by another disgusting display of racism. We all need to join together to carry the torch of safety, dignity, respect, and human rights for everyone. We will do both of these things—plan for a fall safe from the coronavirus, and also plan for a future at this university where everyone feels safe and respected, where we have achieved our goals of being a place where everyone matters and belongs.

I will be convening members of our campus—students, faculty, staff, UTPD—in a conversation about how we pull together, support one another, and create the campus we want to have. I will work in partnership with student, faculty, and staff representatives to listen, learn, and take action. At a time when we are separated by distance, it is more important than ever to be united in commitment and support for one another. Take time to check on your friends and colleagues who might be having a difficult time. They are in pain and they need to know we are here for them.

Volunteers step forward in leadership and service. We will step forward and show the world what kindness, equity, and inclusion for all people can look like.

Donde Plowman signature

 

 

Donde Plowman
Chancellor
Dear UTA Community,

I am writing with a shared sense of shock, fear, outrage and sadness as we reflect upon the senseless killing of George Floyd as well as recent incidents of hatred, inequality and ensuing violence. This touches me deeply as it brings back scarred memories of years of racism and bullying I endured during my youth simply because of my ethnicity. I am forever grateful to my adopted country that has allowed me to heal my wounds and pursue my dreams.

Now, more than ever, it is time that we renew our own commitment to and uphold the values set forth in UTA's Principles of Community. The basis for our UTA Community is mutual respect "…members of our community build trust by finding ways to communicate with one another respectfully. With civil discourse, our other principles will follow. Therefore, we will listen, not just to hear, but to try and understand."

Our nation and our society face tremendous challenges in overcoming racism, discrimination and injustice. As scholars and students, teachers and mentors, I believe each of us at UTA has our own role in making a difference, changing all that is broken and accentuating the good I personally have experienced.

As Dr. Martin Luther King stated, "One of the great liabilities of history is that all too many people fail to remain awake through great periods of social change…Today, our very survival depends on our ability to stay awake, to adjust to new ideas, to remain vigilant and to face the challenge of change."

Let us commit ourselves to act with fairness, justice and mutual respect for all.

Sincerely yours,

Teik C. Lim, Ph.D.

President ad interim

#UTAUnited
Turbulent and Difficult Times
June 1, 2020

Dear UT Community, 

This isn't the first letter I'd planned to write as interim President of The University of Texas at Austin. I had a series of welcome messages set to go out today. But they didn't anticipate or acknowledge the events of the past few days and the pain those events have caused for so many — so I had to start over. 

Today's transition comes during a turbulent and difficult time. We are experiencing widespread outrage, anger, sadness and reflection here in Austin, throughout Texas and across our country. The senseless killing of George Floyd and the ensuing protests have gripped the nation. As I watch these events unfold, I feel for those who are in pain and am acutely aware that we must continue our struggle for meaningful and enduring change to overcome acts of racism and violence that corrode our community.

These challenges come as we are already responding to the COVID-19 crisis, which has become so much more than a life-threatening disease. It has paused or disrupted many of the core elements of our daily lives, forcing students to adjust to learning remotely and a different market for internships and jobs; requiring faculty and staff members to work in new, less comfortable ways; threatening many individuals' ability to keep their jobs and earn a living; and impacting our health care and education systems.

As we navigate these difficult times, I am reminded of just how critical The University of Texas at Austin is for our community, state, nation and the entire world.

UT has always been a special place to me, as a student, faculty member and dean of the McCombs School of Business. Now more than ever, I see that the creation and dissemination of knowledge are the most effective antidotes for injustice, inequality and intolerance, and for the advancement and improvement of our society. And that's what we do at UT.

We say, "What starts here changes the world."Those starts and changes don't just happen. They are the result of actions — large and small, as individuals and in teams — by our students, faculty, staff and alumni.

Without question, 2020 has not been the year any of us wanted it to be. We have seen political dysfunction, a global pandemic, economic distress, racial tension — and it is only June 1. In facing these struggles and uncertainty, we need people who can think creatively, develop workable solutions and solve difficult problems. The University of Texas has always had a mandate to be a "university of the first class."Part of that mandate means that this university and the people of this community will take an active role in addressing the critical problems our society is facing.

As Longhorns, when we are tested, we don't shy away. When we are challenged, we don't fade into the background and shrink from our responsibility. We come together and draw upon the diverse range of talent, energy and passion that we have on the Forty Acres, to take on the most important and difficult issues of our time. I look forward to working with you to do that in the days and months ahead.

Sincerely yours,

Jay Hartzell
Interim President

The University of Texas at Dallas - Office of the President
May 31, 2020

Over the last few days, I have heard from concerned students and colleagues about the horrific footage of George Floyd’s killing in Minneapolis.

I have watched the outrage over this tragedy from cities around the country. I have seen the emotional outpouring as people demand change in our society, and I have personally felt great anguish watching a defenseless man die while begging for help from those who are sworn to protect us.

As one who believes in the American ideal, this week has been difficult to comprehend. I know that I am not alone in questioning how our society can move forward when too many people are denied their rights. And so terribly often, those treated the most violently have been black.

Change must occur, and each one of us must play a role in effecting this change.

As president of UT Dallas, I reinforce the values of community, diversity and tolerance we share on our campus. I stress the imperative that we must live these values daily, and I emphasize the resolve we must have to honor this commitment now and into the future.

We, at UT Dallas, recommit to providing a safe, welcoming environment to all people, regardless of race, religion, ethnic origin, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation.

Each one of us — staff, faculty and students — must take these principles into our core if we are to have any hope of effecting change in our society. I ask that we all recommit ourselves so that, as Comets, we live the values we hope become reality for all people across our nation.

Let UT Dallas be a beacon of decency to the rest of the nation.

Sincerely,

Richard C. Benson
President
Eugene McDermott Distinguished University Chair of Leadership


The University of Texas at Dallas
800 W. Campbell Rd, Richardson, Texas 75080-3021

View this in your browser.
Turbulent and Difficult Times
June 1, 2020

Dear UT Community, 

This isn't the first letter I'd planned to write as interim President of The University of Texas at Austin. I had a series of welcome messages set to go out today. But they didn't anticipate or acknowledge the events of the past few days and the pain those events have caused for so many — so I had to start over. 

Today's transition comes during a turbulent and difficult time. We are experiencing widespread outrage, anger, sadness and reflection here in Austin, throughout Texas and across our country. The senseless killing of George Floyd and the ensuing protests have gripped the nation. As I watch these events unfold, I feel for those who are in pain and am acutely aware that we must continue our struggle for meaningful and enduring change to overcome acts of racism and violence that corrode our community.

These challenges come as we are already responding to the COVID-19 crisis, which has become so much more than a life-threatening disease. It has paused or disrupted many of the core elements of our daily lives, forcing students to adjust to learning remotely and a different market for internships and jobs; requiring faculty and staff members to work in new, less comfortable ways; threatening many individuals' ability to keep their jobs and earn a living; and impacting our health care and education systems.

As we navigate these difficult times, I am reminded of just how critical The University of Texas at Austin is for our community, state, nation and the entire world.

UT has always been a special place to me, as a student, faculty member and dean of the McCombs School of Business. Now more than ever, I see that the creation and dissemination of knowledge are the most effective antidotes for injustice, inequality and intolerance, and for the advancement and improvement of our society. And that's what we do at UT.

We say, "What starts here changes the world."Those starts and changes don't just happen. They are the result of actions — large and small, as individuals and in teams — by our students, faculty, staff and alumni.

Without question, 2020 has not been the year any of us wanted it to be. We have seen political dysfunction, a global pandemic, economic distress, racial tension — and it is only June 1. In facing these struggles and uncertainty, we need people who can think creatively, develop workable solutions and solve difficult problems. The University of Texas has always had a mandate to be a "university of the first class."Part of that mandate means that this university and the people of this community will take an active role in addressing the critical problems our society is facing.

As Longhorns, when we are tested, we don't shy away. When we are challenged, we don't fade into the background and shrink from our responsibility. We come together and draw upon the diverse range of talent, energy and passion that we have on the Forty Acres, to take on the most important and difficult issues of our time. I look forward to working with you to do that in the days and months ahead.

Sincerely yours,

Jay Hartzell
Interim President
President Eighmy addresses UTSA on standing together for social justice
President Eighmy addresses UTSA on standing together for social justice
JUNE 2, 2020 — Editor’s note: The following message was sent via email today from President Taylor Eighmy to all students, faculty and staff:

The recent incidents of racism, violence and killing of Black citizens in our country are a stark reminder of how we must rid deeply rooted bigotry and injustices from our society. I am horrified by these senseless killings and—as I said in my statement over the weekend—I find myself feeling deeply frustrated by the lack of progress made by our country since civil rights activists fought for equal rights 56 years ago. The impact of COVID-19 on communities of color is yet another heart-wrenching example of the reality of ongoing national systemic inequities.

We cannot let the deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor go unnoticed or unaddressed. Nor can we ignore the countless other Black people and other people of color who have lost their lives to senseless acts of violence. We must call out and condemn these racist acts, stand together in the fight for justice, speak out and enact change. On behalf of UTSA’s entire leadership team I want to convey to Black students, faculty and staff in the Roadrunner community that we see you and we will continue to fight alongside you. Black Lives Matter.

I believe public research universities have a responsibility to be at the forefront of change for our country. I believe we can serve as models for diversity, equity and inclusion. I believe we are all born with the same potential—but not given the same opportunities. I believe education is a great equalizer and has the power to change lives and create a more just and equitable society. I believe we have an obligation to ensure that Black students and other underrepresented students feel welcome in our inclusive community, experience a powerful educational journey and graduate prepared to change the world.

We have our own work to do to be exemplary in building an environment of inclusive excellence on our campus. Much work has been done on this front in the past year and much more is planned, including upcoming training sessions in August on addressing racial bias, anti-racist efforts and microagressions. We recognize the need for continued conversations around policing, building on Fair and Impartial Policing training implemented by our UTSA PD last year. I hold myself—and UTSA’s entire leadership team—accountable for continuing to move beyond acknowledging the issues and to provide spaces for our community to fight for justice in effective ways.

Tomorrow’s community gathering, hosted by the Multicultural Student Center for Equity and Justice, is an opportunity to support our grieving and angry community. For any of you who may need additional support, please reach out:

For students, UTSA Counseling and Mental Health Services offers same-day or next-day phone and video counseling sessions.
For faculty and staff, counseling services are available through the Employee Assistance Program.
I encourage all of you—the entire Roadrunner community—to take time to process, take care of one another and take action to move our nation forward.


Diversity and Inclusion: Recognizing our Shortcomings, Working to Improve
Over the past few days, we were made aware of social media comments made by a few students that are racist, offensive and harmful to our community. We are appalled and disheartened that any member of the NC State community would choose to make such abhorrent statements.

To say the words and actions in those posts stand in complete opposition to NC State’s values is an understatement.

As a public institution, NC State is bound by privacy laws such that we cannot share information about individual students or the specifics of investigations. We know that many will not be satisfied with this response, but please know these incidents are being addressed.

At this challenging time across our nation, and in our own community, we want to be clear where NC State leadership stands: We stand against and condemn white supremacy, racial injustice and all forms of racism and discrimination. NC State’s Black students, faculty and staff deserve a campus culture where they feel safe, supported, respected and valued. We are committed to doing all we can to protect, promote and advance diversity, equity and inclusion at NC State.

These incidents remind us that we fall far short of where we aim to be. We need to do more and do better. As a Wolfpack, we must remain united and committed – every one of us must actively contribute to help ensure a more diverse and inclusive environment. And, we need to be innovative and try new ideas and approaches to embrace and advance diversity and inclusion.

We may not get it right every time, but we are committed to listening to the voices and lived experiences of those impacted and challenging ourselves to do the work necessary to build a more just and equitable NC State.

As one first step, in the coming academic year, we will require every student, faculty and staff member to complete diversity and inclusion learning modules. This will include every member of Cabinet as well as all of the deans, directors and department heads of the university.

As another step, we are assembling an interdisciplinary team to evaluate NC State’s policies, examine every opportunity to strengthen them against racism and discriminatory behavior, and modify, where allowed by law, to bolster our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion.

When students return in the fall, we commit to working with them to collaboratively review NC State’s Code of Student Conduct and examine opportunities for improving and strengthening the code, where allowed by law. We will also work with students to review, update and improve our university’s statement of values. When complete, we will expect every student at NC State to uphold these values that define the inclusive and supportive culture that we seek for our community.

Additionally, when students, faculty and staff return to campus, we want to move to a place of dialogue and partnership to have difficult but necessary conversations, better gauge what is needed, what is possible, and working together, what we’re going to do about it. We are working on a plan to facilitate those discussions.

These are not the last things we will do, and they are not nearly enough to overcome the many challenges related to actively addressing both the individual acts of racism and the system of racism to foster belonging for all. But they are a few next steps, and we are fully committed to doing more to keep moving forward.

We are a university that is about transforming lives and making the world a better place. This mission is more important today than ever before. We have much work yet to do, work that will require humility, empathy, resilience, hope and engagement. We remain committed to striving today and every day to ensure a university climate that embraces, values and advances a diverse, inclusive and supportive campus culture.

W. Randolph Woodson | Chancellor
Warwick Arden | Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost
Charles Maimone | Vice Chancellor for Finance and Administration
Brad Bohlander |Chief Communications Officer, Associate Vice Chancellor of University Communications
Boo Corrigan | Director of Athletics
Marc I. Hoit | Vice Chancellor for Information Technology
Kevin Howell | Vice Chancellor for External Affairs, Partnerships and Economic Development
Sheri L. Schwab | Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity
Brian Sischo | Vice Chancellor for University Advancement
P.J. Teal | Secretary of the University and Assistant to the Chancellor
Mladen Vouk | Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation
Marie Williams | Associate Vice Chancellor for Human Resources
Lisa Zapata | Interim Vice Chancellor for the Division of Academic and Student Affairs
Message from President Cockett
May 31, 2020

USU President Noelle Cockett

Full Size
Dear USU students, faculty and staff,

The tragic death of George Floyd in Minneapolis was extremely disturbing to watch. The national protests and unrest that have followed prompt me today to publicly reaffirm Utah State University’s and my own personal commitment to inclusion and respect in our Aggie family and in those communities we reach every day.

Clearly there are many troubling, systemic issues confronting us as a nation, and I think these highly volatile moments are opportune times for us to look inside ourselves to see how we can personally help address and alleviate injustice. These are the times for our Aggie Family to join together and reflect about our commitment to USU’s Principles of Community – our institutional Aggie pledge to diversity, human dignity and social responsibility.

Please join with me today as I reassert one of my critical obligations as university president: to cultivate an environment of respectful engagement and respectful discourse at every level of our society. Thank you.

Respectfully,

Noelle E. Cockett

President, Utah State University
27
CONTACT
Tim Vitale
Associate Vice President for Strategic Communications
University Marketing and Communications
 435-797-1356
 tim.vitale@usu.edu

ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
- Aggies Think, Care, Act
TOPICS
    
Post your Comment
We welcome your comments but your submission will NOT be published online. Your comment or question will be forwarded to the appropriate person. Thank you.
Justice, Inclusion and Humanity – May 30
 June 1, 2020
TU students, faculty and staff,

This past week has brought a heightened sense of shock and sadness as we witnessed an unarmed man being deprived of his rights, his dignity and, eventually, his very breath. George Floyd’s death was captured on video and shared with a world already on edge.

Whether it’s on a Minneapolis street in 2020 or in a Tulsa elevator in 1921, the legacy of racism is deep, pervasive and intolerable.

You, the members of our university community, have a choice. You can choose to recognize bias – in yourself and others – and have the personal courage to call it out. You can be vigilant and vocal. You can be an agent for positive change and an advocate for those at risk of being marginalized. Although we are apart, we are not alone. We are stronger together, and we must live our commitment to justice, inclusion and humanity.

Janet K. Levit
Interim President
A Message About Grieving and Searching for Answers Together
My Dearest UVM: I write to you to share what is on my heart. I am bursting with so many emotions, I need to share. As I wipe away tears that keep forming in the corners of my eyes, know I am thinking of all of you, my UVM family. I really appreciate the calls and texts from so many of you who wanted to make sure I was okay. I am also grateful for the calls where you shared your ideas, anger, and grief with me. Like many of you, I watched in horror the video showing the death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police officers. I sobbed for George as if he was my own son or brother lying on the cold, hard concrete. I then wept for Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and Tony McDade, and soon I was crying for the many who have tragically lost their lives over the years because of racism and inequality. 


Unfortunately, the killing of black men or women by police is not new; it is so common that initially many turned to the usual responses: hashtags, T-shirts, flags, and national leaders condemning this horrific act. Still, George Floyd's homicide seems different to me and so many Blacks or African Americans. Was it the cold, hard concrete he died on, the cry for his mama as he took his last breaths, the plea from so many to help him that was ignored, or was this just the final straw? I continue to reflect on why this tragedy has become a global call for change and action. Regardless, this hurts me to the core. I am exhausted. My Black and African American family and friends are exhausted. We are sick and tired of being sick and tired.

As an African American woman who is also the University's Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, I am yearning for justice, looking for accountability, praying for solutions, and wishing we could be together to comfort one another. This crime against humanity, coupled with the impact of COVID-19 on us as a society has forever changed us. Exactly how we let these events change us, is up to us. For me, I am choosing to remain hopeful and draw upon my faith as I push away my tears, so I can see a better future. 

Despite the challenges we face and the fear we may feel, let us redouble our efforts and insist on systemic reform. I know we cannot take on everything, but we can have an impact at UVM, and in the communities where we serve that will branch out to advance critical social and cultural efforts everywhere. We must use our educational platform to share and enhance knowledge, understanding, ideas and solutions that not only address issues of prejudice and discrimination, but also transform lives for generations to come. We must endeavor to inspire professionals who will be more just, equitable, compassionate, and anti-racist.

As we grieve and search for answers together, I ask that you look after one another, in particular for those of us that are Black or African American. I ask that you condemn any behavior that diminishes the humanity of others. This vicious cycle must be broken because if not now when? The world around us seems to be exploding right now, and we all deserve better. I know I could say so much more. This will not be the last time you hear from me. This work of racial equity has been my life's work, and I need help now more than ever. I need partners. Let us collectively work together and steadfastly to confront and address generations of institutionalized racism. 

I am going to start by hosting a Teach-In to help catalyze action. In addition, I intend to create digital "Brave Spaces,"to support and lift up voices from within our University that are committed to this work. I am asking you to join me, plan with me, lead with me, and when I reach out for your help, please answer my call in both your words and your actions.

This is my single story, so please listen to others who have stories they are willing to share. Your voice matters, and no one can take that away from you unless you give it to them.

In Solidarity for Change and Peace,

Wanda
                                 
Wanda Heading-Grant
Vice President
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

PUBLISHED06-03-2020
WANDA HEADING-GRANT, VP DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCL
The University of Vermont Burlington, VT 05405 (802) 656-3131Contact UVM | Accessibility | Privacy/Terms of Use | © 2020
Dear VCU and VCU Health community,

For several days, I have watched crowds of people across the nation and here in Richmond express their anger and frustration over distressing, horrific events against African Americans in our country, including the recent killings of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Breonna Taylor in Louisville, and Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia.

What I see again and again is a very public manifestation of American history and, indeed, America’s present. It is impossible to comprehend centuries of horrifying injustice against minorities in this nation, particularly African Americans. Yet, even in 2020, your skin color still influences your social mobility and vitality even more so than where you were educated, live, or work. In America, it is still far too easy for those with privilege and prejudice to undo the hard-earned successes of others, particularly racial minorities. Individual, institutional, and structural racism is still our tragic reality.

We must do better. We must recognize and respect the dignity and humanity in each of us.

This also calls for us to remain mindful of the communities we share. The protests over the past few days on and near VCU’s Monroe Park Campus have resulted in damage to our shared community, including broken windows and doors, graffiti, damaged vehicles, and debris fires. I am grateful to our many employees who have responded quickly to make repairs and keep everyone on our campus safe to live, learn, and heal.

We will work together to fix what’s broken here. We must fix what has been broken in our communities across this nation for decades. 

Let’s commit to repairing broken systems that serve to create mistrust in government and law enforcement. Let’s resolve to make equitable and fair the distribution of justice. Let’s pledge to reconcile our own struggles between who we are and who we strive to become as individuals and as communities.

As we continue to process what is happening across our nation—especially the very public violence against African Americans and to our shared communities—the one thing that makes sense is that we can no longer afford to stand by idly. None of us is immune. We must stand to change the systems we have created. We must continue to empower and support our faculty, staff, students, alumni, and neighbors to change the world by voting, and by making equity and inclusion accessible everywhere. We must think about our shared humanity in more enlightened ways, because quite frankly, black lives must matter if we are to ever realize the potential of VCU’s shared community and the vast privileges of belonging to a global community.

Sincerely,

Michael Rao, Ph.D.

President

VCU and VCU Health System

21st-Century University, Community, To VCU
Tagged Ahmaud Arbery, Black Lives Matter, Breonna Taylor, George Floyd

Skip to main contentSkip to search
VIRGINIA TECH™HOME
Universal Access Toggle
APPLY
VISIT
GIVE

SHOP

Resources for

VIRGINIA TECH DAILY

MENU

SEARCH
Virginia Tech Daily/ Articles/ 2020/ May/ A statement from President Tim Sands and Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity Menah Pratt-Clarke
Explore
A statement from President Tim Sands and Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity Menah Pratt-Clarke
May 31, 2020

Aerial view of Virginia Tech Drillfield
Dear Hokies,

As we reflect on a tumultuous week in the United States – surpassing 100,000 in the official count of deaths ascribed to COVID-19 and the boiling over of frustration and anger over the tragic and unnecessary deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and George Floyd - we do so from the relative safety of our quiet Blacksburg homes. Jarring images and videos taken by some of our own children on the streets of Chicago and Washington, D.C., bring home the immediacy of the crisis. It saddens us to know that many in our Virginia Tech community have lost loved ones, or have been traumatized by the events of the past weeks.

Dwelling on images, dramatic events, and counts can distract from the common truths that the pandemic and race-driven murders reveal. As great as our ideals of freedom, justice, and equality may be, the reality is persistently and pervasively falling short of what we say we are all about. From the marked disparities in COVID-19 illness and death across racial, ethnic, and economic divides, to the unrelenting burden of racism, past and present, systemic and overt, we cannot continue to expect incremental change and the goodwill of the majority to solve a multigenerational problem.

So what do we do? What actions can we take? While there is a place for protests, we must do more than protest. We have an opportunity as individuals and in our own communities to construct a microcosm of the society in which we wish to live. At Virginia Tech, we have anchored that aspiration in our Principles of Community, but principles only become meaningful if they are acted upon. Our strategic plan, The Virginia Tech Difference – Advancing Beyond Boundaries, takes the principles one step further to actionable priorities and accountability. Let’s work together to ensure that Virginia Tech becomes a model for a just and equitable learning community that prepares the next generation to lead in a new and better world. Over the next few weeks, the Office for Inclusion and Diversity will be working in collaboration with diversity directors, InclusiveVT representatives, diversity committees, advocates, and allies to identify specific action steps to work for sustainable transformation. We hope you will join in those efforts to help make our world a better place for all.

In the spirit of Ut Prosim,

Tim Sands,
President
Menah Pratt-Clarke,
Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity
Those in the Virginia Tech community who need assistance or counseling support may contact:

Cook Counseling Center at 540-231-6557.
Dean of Students Office at 540-231-3787. Referral to a campus cleric may be made through this office.
Employee Assistance Program
Anthem at 855-223-9277
Aetna at 888-238-6232
Kaiser Permanente at 866-517-7042
Optima Health Vantage HMO at 866-846-2682
Hokie Wellness at 540-231-2233 (students) or 540-231-8878 (employees)
InclusiveVT at 540-231-7500
Office of Housing and Residence Life at 540-231-6205
Women’s Center at Virginia Tech at 540-231-7806
CONTACTS:
Tracy Vosburgh

540-231-5396

Mark Owczarski

540-231-5396

Top News
Article Item
Three people on a zoom call
Unfinished Conversations on Race: Education is key in combating racism, article
Article Item
Caption: Webster Santos (center) and the mitochondrial uncoupler team. Six males are smiling as they stand in front of a large window in Hahn Hall.
Virginia Tech drug researcher develops ‘fat burning’ molecule that has implications for treatment of obesity, article
Article Item
2020 President’s Award for Excellence recipients during celebration on June 4
Five employees named as recipients of the 2020 President’s Award for Excellence, article
TAGS
Beyond BoundariesCampus and CommunityInclusion and DiversityOffice of the PresidentStrategic PlanTop News
Map of Virginia with pins showing locations of Virginia Tech campuses. See All Locations link which follows provides details
Virginia Tech logo
GET DIRECTIONS  

SEE ALL LOCATIONS  

CONTACT VIRGINIA TECH  

University Status
Principles of Community
Privacy Statement
Acceptable Use
We Remember
University Libraries
Accessibility
Consumer Information
Stop Abuse
Policies
Equal Opportunity
WVTF
University Bookstore
Jobs at Virginia Tech
Strategic Plan
© 2020 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved.

Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linked In
Pintrest
YouTube
Share to Facebook
, Number of shares695
Share to Twitter
Share to LinkedIn
Share to Email
To the University community,

On Sunday, I offered some brief reflections on social media regarding the death of George Floyd. Those reflections and that medium were inadequate to the topic, which is why I am writing you today.

Let me start with the obvious but nonetheless essential. What happened to George Floyd – his callous and indifferent killing at the hands of a white police officer – was immoral and sickening. As Dean Risa Goluboff wrote recently, it might be tempting also to say it was "shocking,"but that wrongly suggests it was surprising. The recent and senseless deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and so many others before them whose lives were cut short demonstrate otherwise. This sort of violence against black people, including at the hands of those who are supposed to protect all of us, is sadly all too familiar and stretches back not just decades, but centuries, through the Civil Rights Era, Jim Crow, Reconstruction, and slavery.

And let me apologize. When I wrote last weekend, I felt deep despair. Despair for the treatment experienced by so many people of color in this country – not just by police, but by every segment of society, including higher education, including here at UVA. Despair for the current state of our country, which seems to be unraveling before our eyes. Despair for the continued racial inequities across a wide range of contexts – education, criminal justice, health care, housing, jobs – that are still there, as is the systemic racism that underlies those inequities.

But in my own despair, in indulging in it, I failed to express the genuine sorrow I feel for the unequal and unfair burden that I know our black students, faculty, and staff carry with them, not just through this episode, but through every day. George Floyd's death is just another sharp reminder that far too many people of color in this country live a life that is less secure – less safe – than white people, in part because of encounters with police officers who inflicted harm on people they were meant to protect. As a white parent of four kids, I have not had to have the conversation that so many black parents have had with theirs, cautioning them about how to behave around those who are meant to protect all of us. For all of that, I am truly sorry – both for that burden and for failing to acknowledge it.

And I know it's time to act and not simply to despair or rest on faith. Over the weekend, the Division for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at UVA posted a powerful statement from a group of faculty, staff, and community members reflecting on the latest tragedies. In it, they wrote:

We must continue to do the hard work that will help ensure that our future is different, more just, more accepting, and more inclusive. The future we envision is one in which the devaluing of life is no longer accepted, and where bigotry no longer contaminates our systems and institutions, burdening some community members much more than others.

I couldn't agree more, and I am committed to that work. It's in many ways why I came (back) here.

Through the hard work of many students, faculty, and staff – not to mention the persistent advocacy of alumni and community members – UVA is a better place today than it was a decade ago, or the decade before that. But there is more work to do in order for UVA to look more like the state and country in which we live; in order for UVA to be a trusted neighbor to the Charlottesville region; and in order for all students, faculty, and staff to have their voices and their presence equally valued, respected, and included in their everyday lives on Grounds.

I have tried to champion some of that work in my two years as president, and some of it – like increasing student and faculty diversity and being a good neighbor to the Charlottesville region – is in our strategic plan. To complement and push that work forward, today I have asked three colleagues to lead a racial equity task force: Ian Solomon, the Dean of the Batten School of Public Policy; Kevin McDonald, our Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion; and Barbara Brown Wilson, a faculty member in the School of Architecture and the faculty director of The Equity Center. This group will convene with students, faculty, and staff to gather together the growing list of recommendations, suggestions, and demands regarding the subject of racial equity at UVA – and to solicit others – and will send me a concrete and prioritized set of recommendations about the best steps forward, including actions that can be implemented right away.

Eleven days after I returned to UVA to begin as president, I spoke at an event to mark and remember the one-year anniversary of the white supremacist march through Grounds the year before. As I said then and will say again here:

I stand here today as an ally. I am surely an imperfect one, which is to say I am human, like all of you. I will disappoint some of you for doing too much and others for doing too little, some for going too fast and others for not going fast enough. But I know in my heart where I would like to go, and that is the place where our aspirations and our realities finally intersect. I know that many of you, so many of you, would like to get there as well.

I look forward to our continued, imperfect journey together.

Best,

Jim
--
James E. Ryan
President
University of Virginia

MEDIA CONTACT
Brian Coy

btc6r@virginia.edu 434-243-2070


Trending
THIS WEEK
UVA Renames Building for Walter Ridley, First African American to Earn Doctoral Degree
UVA Renames Building for Walter Ridley, First African American to Earn Doctoral Degree MORE
UVA Intends to Start In-Person Classes in August
UVA Intends to Start In-Person Classes in August MORE
Today, Again, I Am Overwhelmed By Grief and Rage …
Today, Again, I Am Overwhelmed By Grief and Rage … MORE
Video
POPULAR ON UVA TODAY
virtual_finals_thumb.jpg
UVA Class of 2020 Virtual Celebration MORE
year_in_review_thumb.jpg
A Year We Will Never Forget: 2019-20 in Review MORE
jim_ryan_speech_thumb.jpg
‘What Will You Carry With You?' Remarks From UVA President Jim Ryan MORE

Latest Stories
VIEW ALL >
A mobile robot, designed to work in hazardous environments, has been modified to kill the virus that causes COVID-19. (Photos by Sanjay Suchak, University Communications)
RESEARCH & DISCOVERY
Mechanical Engineers Develop Coronavirus Decontamination Robot
(Photo by Kipp Teague via Creative Commons)
BUSINESS & GOVERNMENT
Students Who Lost Internships Will Help Rural Businesses in New Pa
Dear Washington University community,

To say that this has been a difficult and painful week would be an extreme understatement. Like you, I've watched with sadness and grief as events have unfolded first in Minneapolis in response to the killing of George Floyd, and then across the country as individuals and communities have taken to the streets to express their anger and frustration at the racial injustice that continues to plague our nation. The ongoing racial violence that we are witnessing against people of color is nothing short of devastating. In recent months, we have seen a rise in anti-Asian and anti-Asian-American violence, largely perpetuated by other Americans. In the last two weeks, we have seen the continuation of violence against Black Americans, both at the hands of officers of the state and private individuals. The events of the past several days reflect only the most recent in a long line of wrongs that have been inflicted upon our communities of color. 

Here in St. Louis, we are all too familiar with the refrain of those who are committed to addressing issues of inequality and racism – "No justice, no peace."Given our commitment to activism and social justice, it's no surprise that the St. Louis community has joined the call to action, and I'm heartened to see the passion that drives our friends and neighbors to make their voices heard. I also am deeply concerned for the well-being of our community and remain committed to working toward a constructive path forward in our region that tackles structural disparities and inequities.

I've spent a lot of time this weekend thinking, and engaging in conversation with other university leaders, about how we can best support our community and advance the cause of racial justice during this time – what we could say or do that would bring comfort to those who are hurting, and show solidarity with those who are taking action. Given the enormity of the issues before us, we know without question that words are not enough, and that no "statement"will begin to resolve the tremendous challenges that are still before us. And yet, there are some things that are important to say.

First, we must acknowledge those who are suffering. To our students, faculty, staff, and any other members of our community who are feeling targeted, unheard, or unsupported, we see you and are here for you. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion means more than just welcoming every person into our community. It means valuing you as individuals with your own identities, actively acknowledging that you matter, and unwaveringly supporting your right to be treated fairly and equally in every aspect of our society. We stand with you and condemn all acts of hate, aggression, or disrespect toward any racial group that may happen anywhere in our community, our region, our country, or the world. We are committed to supporting all members of our community, and we must redouble our efforts to achieve the equity that is foundational to fostering this environment.

In addition, we remain committed to making a difference. After the killing of Michael Brown in Ferguson in 2014, our Washington University community began the long process of looking inward, to see how we could create space for honest dialogue about race, ethnicity, inequality, and social justice, how we could "do better and be better."Since that time, we have taken steps as a community to become more fully engaged on these issues, and to work toward positive change. At our most recent Day of Dialogue and Action this spring, we reaffirmed our commitment to creating "intentional spaces to listen, extend empathy, celebrate, and engage in dialogue"in hopes of reflecting on our own humanity and the humanity of others. The events of this week are a painful reminder of how much work we all still have to do, as a nation and as a society.

Finally, we must take action. This includes not only supporting our community, but also doing what is at the core of our mission: leveraging our activities in support of research, teaching, and patient care to make a difference in helping to forward the cause of racial and social justice in our community, our region, and around the world. Already some of our schools have announced initiatives aimed at improving racial equity, especially focusing on racial violence. We anticipate announcing additional initiatives in the coming weeks.

The separation of our community due to the COVID-19 pandemic has placed an additional strain on our ability to come together to support, listen to, and learn from one another. We are all struggling with the disconnection from our peers, friends, and support networks, especially during this time of additional stress. But this only makes our need to create space for engagement within our community even more urgent, and we are working toward ways to do that in the days ahead. In the short-term, please stay tuned for invitations to opportunities to participate in observances and events that our leaders are currently planning. In the longer-term, we continue to listen and engage with members of our community to work toward substantive, mission-oriented action that we will take institutionally to make our city and our world beacons of opportunity for all. 

In these incredibly difficult times, I know there are no words that will be enough. But it's important for you to know that as a community, we are united in our commitment to justice and racial equity.

Sincerely,

Andrew D. Martin
Chancellor

 
Denouncing racial violence and the ugliness of historic, systemic inequality, President Kirk Schulz and the university's executive leadership pledged greater accountability in confronting racial and social justice failures.

"We must consider our own roles in maintaining systemic racism and accepting racial violence, even when it makes us uncomfortable,"a letter from the university system's executive leadership team reads. "When our actions are informed by the truth of others, we can move forward, together, courageously and realize the aspirations of racial and social justice. Only then can we begin to create an authentic space from which to proceed."

In addition to Schulz, the letter was signed by interim Provost Bryan Slinker, incoming Provost Elizabeth Chilton and all chancellors and vice presidents.

Enter search text
Search

All the UW
Current site
Skip to main content
MyUW
Calendar
Directories
Libraries
UW Medicine
Maps
UW Today
Helpful Links
Computing/IT
Workday/ISC
Husky Card
UW Bothell
UW Tacoma
UW Facebook
UW Twitter
University of WashingtonUniversity of Washington
StudentsParentsFaculty & StaffAlumni  Quick Links
UW LEADERSHIP
 
REGENTS
 
PRESIDENT
 
PROVOST
Office of the President
Home
Office of the President
Archive
Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
May 30, 2020

Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
Ana Mari Cauce

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do they see a strong, resilient, educated woman?
Do they see someone who is their ancestors' wildest dreams?
Do they see a woman who has friends and family they love?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do you only see my skin color?
Do you only see the stereotypes others created for me?
Do you only see your fear?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

My brothers and sisters are villainized for asking questions.
My brothers and sisters are detained for walking on a public street.
My brothers and sisters are killed for existing.

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

I wonder when I will be harassed for existing.
I wonder when the police will be called to my door.
I wonder when I will be the one mourned.

I'm terrified to go outside.

– Laura Cañate, MBA '18

The last few weeks and months have been a time of jarring contrasts. Community members donating masks sewn by hand to protect essential workers, while mask-free revelers flout distancing mandates at pools and beaches. Groups of armed white demonstrators march against stay-at-home orders at state capitols with impunity, while for Black Americans the simple act of walking down the street, jogging or birdwatching can be fraught with danger, and even end in death. Too many are left to wonder, as does UW MBA alumna Laura Cañate, ‘18, "when I will be the one mourned."

Many of us have seen those compelling "before and after"pandemic pictures of cityscapes around the world. The before pictures show buildings shrouded by pollution while the after pictures reveal majestic mountains or vast stretches of squalid, overcrowded houses in the background. It's like a veil has been lifted allowing us to see more clearly what was there all along.

Support and resources

SafeCampus
Bias Incident Reporting Tool

Bothell
Counseling Center
Student Diversity Center

Seattle
Counseling Center
Let's Talk
Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center

Tacoma
Counseling and Psychological Services
Center for Equity and Inclusion

Employees
CareLink

Periods of upheaval and crisis both test and reveal our character, as individuals, communities and nations. Over the last few weeks and months, I've written about the courage and creativity of so many in our community. I've never been prouder of our faculty, students and staff and I am confident that we can and will continue to learn and grow together, building toward a healthier future for all.

But first, we must seize the clarity this moment offers. Painful though it may be, we must face up to the inequities this pandemic has laid bare, and the ugliness that it has revealed. We ARE all in this together, I wear a mask not to protect me, but to protect you. And it is also unquestionably true, that we are not all on equal footing. There are class and race differences not only in who can work from home, and who must venture out, but in who has kept their job and who hasn't. While low-income and communities of color are more apt to work at jobs that require them to be there in person, these same jobs are less likely to come with health care or sick leave. These communities are more apt to be in neighborhoods characterized by overcrowding and with less access to healthy food choices and recreational activities, conditions that no doubt play a role in the fact that people of color are more apt to suffer complications and even death from COVID-19.

These structural inequities, and the institutional racism that they reflect, create and amplify the conditions that led to the appalling ugliness that we've seen in the last few days and weeks — laid bare once again by ubiquity of cellphone cameras. The post-pandemic goal should not be to go back to the way it was. We must do better. As we enter into a period where a new vigilance around hygiene and closeness will become habitual, and where we measure the consequences of our individual actions not just by their effect on our own health, but on how they might affect our family and friends, let's create a "new normal"where attention to issues of equity becomes habitual as well. In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up – or go back.

Laura, I see you, I hear you. I know the smart, strong, sensitive woman that you are. I know your pain. My brother has been murdered next to yours, leaving a hole in my heart and life that can never be filled. And to you and all Black students, faculty and staff, while I can only imagine what it's like to walk in your shoes because my light skin protects me from your terror, I can and will walk with you.

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor — say their names, see their faces, hear their cries. Weep, then act.

 

FacebookTwitterLinkedInEmailShare
CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2020!
On June 13, graduates, their families and friends will gather from around the world to join in celebrating the Class of 2020 in the University of Washington's first ever live, interactive Commencement webcast.

LEARN MORE
President's Blog 
Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
6 days ago

Empowering people with disabilities requires investment and innovation
1 week ago

Washington's universities are anything but discretionary
1 week ago

American flags on the HUB lawn
A chance to reflect and honor those who gave their lives
2 weeks ago

More
Subscribe

Email
Email

RSS
RSS

PRESIDENT'S TWITTER

INVITE THE PRESIDENT
Want President Ana Mari Cauce to attend your event? Submit a request.
University of Washington
Be boundless
Connect with us:
Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest
Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms
© 2020 University of Washington | Seattle, WA
A MESSAGE TO OUR COMMUNITY
Posted on May 31, 2020
The events happening this week in the Twin Cities, across the nation and here in Madison demonstrate the anger that members of our community feel over years of unequal treatment.  This anger demands meaningful action, particularly for those of us who are in positions of privilege.

I recognize that words condemning the tragic and inexcusable death of George Floyd are not enough. UWPD Chief Kristen Roman and her fellow Dane County chiefs are already engaged with the community to reduce trust gaps and improve safety through the Law Enforcement and Leaders of Color Collaboration. I appreciate the work that UWPD has done to ensure that its training and policies protect and serve our communities of color as effectively as they protect and serve other members of our community.

Our work extends beyond law enforcement to every facet of our institution. Although most of us cannot physically be on campus because of the coronavirus, we continue to work on creating a more inclusive and diverse community through the efforts of Diversity, Equity and Educational Achievement:admissions and recruitment:faculty/staff recruitment and retention:Student Affairs:Human Resources, our schools and colleges as well as within individual departments and units.

Each of us – particularly those of us who do not face the daily challenge of living amid inequity and injustice – must contribute to and lead the change that is needed. There are many ways to become more aware and involved. A list of resources is available on the DDEEA website.

Our campus has a long and proud tradition of helping bring about lasting change through peaceful protest. Thousands of people gathered peacefully at the Capitol Saturday afternoon. Unfortunately, a small number chose to engage in destructive acts that attacked already-struggling local businesses. I condemn this violence:it drowns out the message that needs to be heard and is likely to create backlash and more anger on all sides, rather than promote the changes that are needed.

I urge anyone participating in protests to engage in peaceful activism that drives towards systemic change. Use the power and privilege of your education to speak up, reject hate, racism and violence and use respect to build our community. Please take care for your own safety and those around you in this time of COVID-19.

Finally, I encourage those who are anxious or angry about recent national events to connect with the campus resources that are here to support you. These include the Multicultural Student Center, DDEEA, University Health Services and the Employee Assistance Office.

To our Black and Brown students, staff and faculty, I want to say unambiguously: You belong here, you are important to this campus, your lives matter and I am committed to your safety.

This is a time of unprecedented challenge but I remain steadfast in the belief that together, we can move forward toward a more just future.

POST NAVIGATION
Previous post: Planning for a safe return to campus
Dear UWM Faculty, Staff and Students,

Last Friday, I reaffirmed UWM’s commitment to supporting and protecting our diversity, equity and inclusivity. In the short time since then, we’ve seen our cities, region and nation erupt in protest in response to the killing of George Floyd by a Minneapolis Police Department officer. Voice after voice has joined together to condemn decades of institutional violence, injustice and failures in our criminal justice system. And rightly so.

Let me be clear when I express, both for myself and campus leaders, our strong and clear solidarity in support of black lives and with those who are peacefully protesting. The time for successfully transforming our society is now. We support those who are peacefully protesting and the change they will bring.

Your voices are important, and we care deeply about making positive change.

What actions are we taking now to make a difference?

We have been connecting our students, faculty, staff and others through the multicultural success coaches of the Black Student Cultural Center to ensure that safety and a sense of belonging are addressed, particularly as it relates to our African-American males.
We continue to provide resources on how to engage in both individual and facilitated discussions around racism and anti-racist education.
We continue to work with MKE Fellows, a program that focuses on African-American males before and after their entry to UWM. Contact Ray Anthony Fikes for additional information.
We continue to support our ongoing African-American Male Initiative which serves as an important recruitment and retention tool.
What action will we commit to for the near future?

Going forward and working in partnership with governance groups, we will institute mandatory anti-bias, anti-racism training for all members of the UWM family. More details on this will follow.
To set the tone for future discussions around race, we encourage all to visit the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. This resource is an integral part of our ongoing diversity, equity and inclusion framework.
Once again, let me stress our unequivocally strong stance against racism, violence and oppression. Every person who sets foot on one of our campuses has the right to feel safe, respected and valued.

We see you. You matter. We care.

Best regards,

Mark A. Mone
Chancellor
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Stand with me, stand together: Black Lives Matter
DEPARTMENT(S): 
Office of the President
June 1, 2020
The past several months have presented unprecedented challenges for our community, the nation, and the world. Events of the past week have reminded us that while we are all focused on keeping our loved ones safe and healthy, the underlying inequities within our society remain. In fact, we must acknowledge that societal inequalities are actually being exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic.

The protests of the past few days, ignited by the killing of George Floyd, but truly fueled by the continued targeting, demonization, and abuse of black people across our country, highlight legitimate anger, which I share. The uprising we're now seeing points to the significant work we still have to do as a society to confront and eliminate racism. I stand with those who are outraged at the senseless loss of black lives. I offer my support to those who deal daily with racism and other forms of discrimination. I state unequivocally that Black Lives Matter; that racism, discrimination, and bigotry violate our values as a university and that they will not be tolerated in our community. I ask each of you stand with me, with us, and for your friends, your peers, your students, your neighbors as we seek a path forward. 

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. paraphrased Massachusetts-born abolitionist minister Theodore Parker when he said "The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."That arc feels much too long these days. And we must acknowledge that it won't bend on its own. Each of us, especially those of us who are privileged, must consider how we can contribute to bending the arc toward justice, and do our part to make the universe we want to see. 

There is no perfect answer, no perfect action we can take, because these societal problems run deep and have been created and perpetuated over generations. Nonetheless, I truly believe that our community can and must do more to live our values and advance the causes of justice as we look toward the coming year. I pledge to explore that with you further as we start to come back together in the weeks and months ahead. I welcome your ideas for specific steps that WPI can take as we continue to seek to create a truly equitable community where all are treated with respect, and all can thrive. I know we can make a difference together.

This has been and remains a trying and turbulent time. Both the toll of the virus and the upheaval in the world are real. Dealing with the scale of what we are witnessing is especially challenging because we are not physically together. However, we can still lift one another up through our community. Our resources are here to provide support, including the Student Development & Counseling Center, Office of Multicultural Affairs , the Employee Assistance Program, or simply the comfort of colleagues and friends over Zoom. 

Be safe and well. Standing together we will bend the arc of the universe toward justice.

Laurie

WPI in the World
Global Impact Program
GLOBAL PROJECTS PROGRAM
About 
Let's Answer This Call of Distress
June 2, 2020

Dear Members of the UW Community,

As I am sure you are all seeing in Wyoming or wherever you may be, many communities around the nation are in turmoil in reaction to the killing of George Floyd, and to the history of racism, intolerance and bigotry and their terrible outcomes that this event signifies to people across the nation and across the world. Newspapers and television networks are showing daily what is happening in cities like Minneapolis, New York, Chicago, Washington, D.C., and elsewhere, telling a painful narrative of national upheaval that is perhaps unparalleled since the era of the civil rights movement of the 1960s.

The national reaction is widespread, and certainly not limited to cities. The small university community where I have lived the last six years, amid fields of corn and soybeans, experienced significant peaceful protests to show solidarity with brown, black and other communities. But we also experienced violence, including vandalism, looting and gunshots being fired. All three of our nearby towns of Champaign (pop. 88,000), Urbana (pop. 42,000) and Savoy (pop. 8,400) went under curfew Sunday evening for the first time that anyone I know can recall; a limited reopening of our campus was postponed; and numerous activities, even long-planned events that were to be virtual, including a board meeting I was to attend yesterday, were canceled.

This upheaval is a distress call to us all. It is a distress call that we must continue to be vigilant about the continuing racism, bigotry and intolerance that have no place in our community. It is a distress call from our friends, family and colleagues who, even if they are safe at home in this COVID-19 crisis and are not directly experiencing violence against them at this moment, feel a sympathetic nerve has been touched that causes pain very, very deep inside.

Yesterday, I had emails from two different people expressing the very personal distress they are experiencing as a result of recent events. One, from an African-American colleague, asked us to please know that black and brown people who may seem to be relatively removed from this turmoil are actually experiencing very deeply felt trauma in response to not only the recent events, but to what they signify about our society. She soldiered on and attended meetings, but in her words, "we are not OK" and need support. Another, from international Hispanic communities, urged international members of his research team to be very careful going out of their homes, or better yet, to avoid it completely. So, I ask you all to please think very deeply about these events, and especially to reach out to your friends and colleagues, and ask them how they are.  Ask them what you can do to help them.  Ask them how we together can help address the larger issues that these feelings reveal about our society. And commit to it.

Chief Diversity Officer Emily Monago wrote yesterday to our community to draw attention to these events and to reaffirm the values of the University of Wyoming, and I think it is worth repeating some of her words: "During these unprecedented times, let us remember our University of Wyoming values where racism, violence, sexual violence, antisemitism, homophobia, transphobia, sexism, ableism, national origin, and other forms of disparate treatment, injustices and inequities are denounced. Let us stay committed to our resolve to educate our campus community to interrupt, stop and eliminate inequities, injustices and violence from our society at the local, regional, national and global levels. Let us resolve to be a united community regardless of social identities or beliefs."

I want to reaffirm that the University of Wyoming does, and will continue, to uphold these values. Further, diversity and inclusion make our community strong, vital and vibrant. They are absolutely necessary for the excellence we strive for. They require a commitment from all of us, every day, to embrace our shared university values actively, not passively. And they require a commitment that we care for one another in order to create a sense of well-being across our community. I ask you all to do just this at this time in our history, and to commit with me to continue do everything in your power to ensure that our diverse university community thrives in the future. It will make us all, and the university we serve, better for it.

Sincerely,

President-Designate Edward Seidel




May 30, 2020

Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
Ana Mari Cauce

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do they see a strong, resilient, educated woman?
Do they see someone who is their ancestors' wildest dreams?
Do they see a woman who has friends and family they love?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do you only see my skin color?
Do you only see the stereotypes others created for me?
Do you only see your fear?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

My brothers and sisters are villainized for asking questions.
My brothers and sisters are detained for walking on a public street.
My brothers and sisters are killed for existing.

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

I wonder when I will be harassed for existing.
I wonder when the police will be called to my door.
I wonder when I will be the one mourned.

I'm terrified to go outside.

– Laura Cañate, MBA '18

The last few weeks and months have been a time of jarring contrasts. Community members donating masks sewn by hand to protect essential workers, while mask-free revelers flout distancing mandates at pools and beaches. Groups of armed white demonstrators march against stay-at-home orders at state capitols with impunity, while for Black Americans the simple act of walking down the street, jogging or birdwatching can be fraught with danger, and even end in death. Too many are left to wonder, as does UW MBA alumna Laura Cañate, ‘18, "when I will be the one mourned."

Many of us have seen those compelling "before and after" pandemic pictures of cityscapes around the world. The before pictures show buildings shrouded by pollution while the after pictures reveal majestic mountains or vast stretches of squalid, overcrowded houses in the background. It's like a veil has been lifted allowing us to see more clearly what was there all along.

Support and resources

SafeCampus
Bias Incident Reporting Tool

Bothell
Counseling Center
Student Diversity Center

Seattle
Counseling Center
Let's Talk
Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center

Tacoma
Counseling and Psychological Services
Center for Equity and Inclusion

Employees
CareLink

Periods of upheaval and crisis both test and reveal our character, as individuals, communities and nations. Over the last few weeks and months, I've written about the courage and creativity of so many in our community. I've never been prouder of our faculty, students and staff and I am confident that we can and will continue to learn and grow together, building toward a healthier future for all.

But first, we must seize the clarity this moment offers. Painful though it may be, we must face up to the inequities this pandemic has laid bare, and the ugliness that it has revealed. We ARE all in this together, I wear a mask not to protect me, but to protect you. And it is also unquestionably true, that we are not all on equal footing. There are class and race differences not only in who can work from home, and who must venture out, but in who has kept their job and who hasn't. While low-income and communities of color are more apt to work at jobs that require them to be there in person, these same jobs are less likely to come with health care or sick leave. These communities are more apt to be in neighborhoods characterized by overcrowding and with less access to healthy food choices and recreational activities, conditions that no doubt play a role in the fact that people of color are more apt to suffer complications and even death from COVID-19.

These structural inequities, and the institutional racism that they reflect, create and amplify the conditions that led to the appalling ugliness that we've seen in the last few days and weeks — laid bare once again by ubiquity of cellphone cameras. The post-pandemic goal should not be to go back to the way it was. We must do better. As we enter into a period where a new vigilance around hygiene and closeness will become habitual, and where we measure the consequences of our individual actions not just by their effect on our own health, but on how they might affect our family and friends, let's create a "new normal" where attention to issues of equity becomes habitual as well. In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up – or go back.

Laura, I see you, I hear you. I know the smart, strong, sensitive woman that you are. I know your pain. My brother has been murdered next to yours, leaving a hole in my heart and life that can never be filled. And to you and all Black students, faculty and staff, while I can only imagine what it's like to walk in your shoes because my light skin protects me from your terror, I can and will walk with you.

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor — say their names, see their faces, hear their cries. Weep, then act.
Dear Warrior community,

Yet again our nation is rising in anger and sorrow at another senseless death of a black man, this time due to brutality exhibited during an arrest. I wish to share my thoughts with you about this terrible tragedy.

Unfortunately, racism and the disparate impact of violence in the black community remain national issues, but we should remember that each of these incidents involves real people. George Floyd had family and friends who mourn his death, and dreams that will never be fulfilled. My heart aches for this loss, and my sympathies go out to his loved ones. No person in America — regardless of their race, creed or religion — should ever fear for their life simply because of who they are or how they look.

But the fear is real, because far too often it feels like we’re living the same nightmare. How do we deal with it? We demand better of all citizens, particularly those we trust to keep us safe. We also come together — not in violence, but in protest against violence, and in sympathy for those to whom violence has been committed. The compassionate, inclusive and community-minded ethos that defines Wayne State is one of the things I value most about this university, and we need to draw on it now.

Even though we can’t gather physically to mourn, we can still support each other through the means we have. Wayne State University will host a virtual dialogue on Wednesday, June 3, at 5 p.m. We hope you will join us using this Zoom link (Meeting ID: 831 3199 8274. Password: 598720).

Another reason I write today is to remind you that senseless deaths and mishandling of justice like those we've seen in Minneapolis and Atlanta are precisely why we take racial sensitivity training so seriously with the Wayne State University Police Department. Our officers regularly receive training on how to act in all types of situations, with all types of people. We are now taking the lead in this important training with the establishment of the headquarters of National De-escalation Training Center (NDTC) with Wayne State’s police department. The NDTC has filed for non-profit corporation status with the State of Michigan and has already begun de-escalation training of sworn Wayne State University police officers. The training offered by the NDTC has been specifically developed and designed to exceed traditional de-escalation methods, with the goal of fostering positive interactions with citizens and reducing the number of needless and tragic encounters that result in injuries and deaths to both citizens and police officers. 

Here in Detroit, a city that has been ravaged disproportionately by the coronavirus pandemic, we may feel strongly about the injustice of George Floyd’s murder. We may be tempted to believe that there have been far too many senseless deaths, and that it is vain to hope for a better world. But I urge you not to succumb to despair. As a black man, I have felt personally the sting of racism. Instead of feeling defeated by it, I have sought ways to stand up to it: by mentoring minority students, opening people’s eyes to the benefits of diversity, and devoting my career to researching and addressing health inequities around the globe. I do so because it helps others, and it gives me hope that our country will find a way to reckon with the urgent need for change in how we treat and support one another. Let’s model that change, each of us, by treating each other with love and respect.

Sincerely,





Letter from Chancellor Robinson: Racial Justice
WSSU News & Information

Dear Ram Family,

Against the backdrop of a global pandemic that is disproportionately impacting African Americans, we again find ourselves assailed with horrific images that remind us of the reality of racism in America. While the memories of Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor are still fresh, we experience the video of a white police officer kneeling on George Floyd's neck while Mr. Floyd gasps, "I can't breathe" as his life is snuffed out. We are once again reminded of James Baldwin's writing on the failure of human rights and social justice: "We have emptied oceans with homemade spoons and tore down mountains with our hands."

Black America is accustomed to institutional racism in its many facets; however, it can often seem as though our efforts to eradicate it have too little effect. While I don't condone violence as a means to an end, I do support our fellow citizens' right to peacefully protest the inequities and injustice in our society. The fury and grief that people are feeling speak to the institutionalized intolerance, discrimination, marginalization, and bigotry that have existed in this country—and our world—for centuries. 

But what must be our response to darkness? We must always move together toward the light. We must continue to say yes to life—and it is often found in terrible places like racist policies, beliefs, and practices; nevertheless, that is life. 

James Baldwin once again gives us a path forward: 

"For nothing is fixed, forever and forever and forever, it is not fixed; the earth is always shifting, the light is always changing, the sea does not cease to grind down rock. Generations do not cease to be born, and we are responsible to them because we are the only witness they have.

The sea rises, the light fails, lovers cling to each other, and children cling to us. The moment we cease to hold each other, the moment we break faith with one another, the sea engulfs us and the light goes out."

As I consider this national crisis, I am reminded of our university's rich history and its contributions to the advancement of social justice and equity in our society. Consider our motto: "Enter to Learn. Depart to Serve." Our service as members of the Ram Family can—and should—include helping to eradicate the cancer that is racism in America. As long as we keep the light shining on racism, we have a chance of eliminating it. But we have to stay vigilant, because it's always omnipresent. And we have to hold up one another. 

This journey toward a more enlightened America has been—and will continue to be—a rocky road. We must uplift one another, support one another, and advocate for one another in all spaces and places where we have a voice. We must find ways to protest peacefully, vote and run for office, and commit ourselves anew to the work we do at Winston-Salem State. Our students are the next generation of leaders; we need their energy and effort to carry the torch as we work toward peace, justice, and equality.

 Please know my heart is with you, Rams. Be safe. 

 Sincerely,

Elwood L. Robinson, Ph.D.

Tags: Chancellor
More News

Black lives matter.  We stand with those protesting the racist killing of George Floyd. Too many have been killed: Breonna Taylor, Ahmard Arbery, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice, Quanice Hayes, Aiyana Jones, Eric Garner, Stephon Clark, Sandra Bland, Kendra James, Trayvon Martin, and the list goes on. We stand with those protesting long-standing racial injustice. We are acutely aware that machine learning algorithms trained with data that embodies the racial and social injustices of today will perpetuate and amplify these injustices in the future. Already we have witnessed applications of ML in law enforcement, policing, hiring, healthcare, and education that replicate or amplify existing biases. Any technology that unintentionally or by design marginalizes, excludes, or harms Black communities is damaging and dangerous. We recognize the hard work done by fellow ML researchers to shine light on these ill-conceived applications, and call on the ML community at large to take accountability for the societal impacts and consequences that our technology has on society and the world. Women in Machine Learning (WiML) reaffirms our commitment to promoting diversity and increasing the awareness of women, particularly Black women, in machine learning. n this vein, we want to highlight some impactful groups working to support Black students, researchers, and professionals in machine learning and computer science more broadly: 
@black_in_ai @AJLUnited @BlackGirlsCode @Code2040 @Data4BlackLives @blkintechnology @NSBE If you’re looking for specific ways to support the Black Live Matter movement, check https://blacklivesmatters.carrd.co
If you are looking for information about policing in your local community, check
Campaign Zero https://joincampaignzero.org/solutions and Use of Force Project useofforceproject.org #BlackLivesMatter
Dear Wright State family,

It is not enough to say that Wright State University has an unwavering commitment to diversity and inclusion. I want to express our horror at the tragic and disturbing events that unfurled in Minneapolis this week. This is yet another painful reminder of the persistence of racial inequity and injustice in our country, and it only underscores our responsibility to stand together in solidarity against acts like this and to promote equity and inclusion.

As president of Wright State University, I understand the limitations of a message like this, because it comes at a time when many in our community are in pain and angry. At the same time, I hope you know that I stand with you in these challenging times.

I want to remind our campus community of resources that are available to assist you. I encourage anyone who needs it to reach out to these campus resources to provide you with support, compassion, and understanding.

Wright State students can seek confidential support services through Counseling and Wellness Services by calling 937-775-3407. You can call Raider Cares, a 24-hour crisis phone service, at 833-848-1765 (TTY: 314-485-4345). You also have access to a Crisis Text Line that offers 24-hour, seven-day per week text contact with trained crisis counselors, by texting "LISTEN" to 741-741.

Wright State's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides support services for all employees, regardless of benefit eligibility. EAP services are provided at no cost to employees, and include 24/7 telephone access to licensed and experienced counselors, as well as work/life balance services. Call 800-227-6007 or visit the Impact Solutions website at myimpactsolution.com. Use member username: wsufsap.

Diversity is one of our greatest strengths. Our diversity of thought, culture, background, and experiences fuel our community's ability to thrive in uncertain times, consider thought-provoking opinions without incident, and nurture one another when confronted by great challenges.

We will never fail when we face our challenges together. We stand together.

Sue

Dear Members of the Yale Community,

I write to you today deeply upset by the killing of George Floyd while he was in the custody of Minneapolis police officers. Mr. Floyd's death follows a pattern of racial injustice that has become too familiar in our country and that amounts to a national emergency.

At a time when the American community must come together more than ever before, George Floyd's horrifying death shocks our shared conscience and indicts our shared failure. It can and must remind us of other similar killings and of the racism, nativism, and bigotry too pervasive in society today and throughout our country's history.

Over the past week, I have been thinking about two seemingly incongruous things—our sense of community and one of our most basic emotions: fear.

Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, legitimate fear has been very much with us, but not just about the virus itself, and not among us equally. From reports of racism against people of Asian descent to the unacceptable disparities in health outcomes and health care, there was every reason for us to fear for the safety of our neighbors and family members, and of some, sadly, more than of others.

At the same time, I saw nurses, doctors, support staff, and volunteers act with courage, selflessness, and compassion in our home city and around the world. We nurtured a growing sense of community, which gave us the optimism and hope that must ever be a cornerstone of our beloved country. It is in the face of that noble expression of solidarity that George Floyd's death has shaken us and the shared spirit of heroism we have aroused to fight the pandemic.

As I read the news reports of Mr. Floyd's death and its explosive response, I knew that many members of our community feel fear in their daily lives because of the injustices they have experienced and witnessed, and I thought of how fear so reliably leads to anxiety, depression, health deterioration, and anger, and also to aggression and even violence. Some of the protests have turned destructive, undermining the plea for justice all Americans must share. Fear is powerful, damaging, and unpredictable in its effects.

I believe that all of us at Yale must do what we can to replace fear with hope—and not with anything less than action. Here I have been thinking much of the life of the extraordinary Pauli Murray, a lawyer, civil rights leader, and Yale Law School graduate. She experienced firsthand the cruelties of racial segregation and suffered injustices. She knew fear. However, she wrote in her memoir, "Seeing the relationship between my personal cause and the universal cause of freedom released me from a sense of isolation…I would be no less afraid to challenge the system of racial segregation, but the heightened significance of my cause would impel me to act in spite of my fears."

I have implored myself—and earnestly invite you to do the same— to make direct use of Pauli Murray's wisdom. Her words remind us of all that we have been able to accomplish together because of our shared commitment to the common good. Since mid-March, we have saved lives in this pandemic. We have isolated ourselves, changed the way we live, and sacrificed to safeguard the well-being of the most vulnerable among us and prevent our hospitals from becoming overwhelmed. It is vital to remember that we have been united in easing suffering, improving lives, and providing hope during a turbulent and challenging period of our history. If we can do this, we are capable, all of us, of creating the America we must insist belongs to us all.

In 1945, Pauli Murray wrote, "As an American I inherit the magnificent tradition of an endless march toward freedom and toward the dignity of all mankind." We have so much more to do to foster and sustain an equitable society. Instead of feeling the isolating effects of fear when our sense of community is shaken, we must remember that we are connected in more ways than we are divided. And that where we are divided, we must work, now, in the interest of unity and justice. This is a matter of the highest importance.

So, let us act as Pauli Murray would have us act toward those we know well but also those to whom we are connected simply by a common and powerful dream. I am grateful that you and I share Yale and its mission to improve the world today and for future generations. In looking forward to the work we have ahead of us, I wish you peace and strength.

With best wishes for your health and safety,

Peter Salovey
President
Chris Argyris Professor of Psychology
We are of our community – and our community is in pain. We cannot escape the problems of society – for we carry the successes and challenges of our community with us wherever we go. Left unchecked, racism, sexism, homophobia, and fear of the other can enter any organization or community – and destroy the foundations upon which we must build our future.

The past few harrowing days have laid bare how a lack of trust, respect, and leadership can tear at our social fabric. In these times, we must pull together and provide leadership in our own communities. Leadership is not about having all of the answers. It starts with unwavering principles that can steady us when the world seems unbalanced.

With all that is happening around us, let us recommit AAAS to these relevant principles:

    Diversity, equity, and inclusion along every axis are critical for our organization, the scientific enterprise, and our community to progress
    Ensuring lasting diversity, equity, and inclusion requires going beyond intervention to systemic change
    Systemic change begins with everyone feeling safe and respected
    Hatred, discrimination, and injustice have no place at AAAS, in science, or in our community

Let us recommit ourselves to these principles and rededicate ourselves to the mission of advancing science and serving society. Society needs us more than ever.

The coming weeks and months will bring further unprecedented challenges to us and our communities. What we do in this time will define us for a generation. In the face of national uncertainty, I am confident in this team’s ability to be a force for science, a force for good, and a support for one another. Our programs, publications, and advocacy are critical to a better and more just world. Your support makes each of these possible.

Nevertheless, a torrent of emotion has been unleashed in the last few days. It is understandable to feel anger, sadness, and helplessness. Many of us have been deeply impacted by these events. It is my hope that we come together as colleagues and friends to support one another. Science, scientists, and science advocates are going to be critical to ensuring we successfully navigate this troubled time together

"In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up — or go back."
ACM Stands with Those who promote inclusivity
In the United States, and throughout many regions around the world, current events have brought attention to the urgent need for equality and respect for all individuals. ACM reaffirms its commitment to fostering diversity and inclusion within the global computer science community.

As an international organization of nearly 100,000 professionals, ACM respects the essential worth of all people and firmly believes that diversity strengthens the scientific enterprise and society as a whole. ACM’s Code of Professional Ethics embodies these principles, and our Diversity and Inclusion Council works to translate them into effective action.

ACM is committed to creating an environment that welcomes new ideas and perspectives, and where hostility or other harmful behaviors are not tolerated. As an organization, we stand with those who promote inclusivity.


The AISES family shares in the pain and grief of the black community resulting from the murder of George Floyd and the long history of oppression and violence against their communities. As indigenous people, at AISES, we are guided by the traditional knowledge of our ancestors who have lived and died upon these lands since time immemorial. Among this knowledge is the deep understanding that "we are all related." It is this respect for relationships and community that guides AISES' programs and partnerships. For example, for several years now, AISES has been a part of the 50k Coalition alongside the National Society of Black Engineers, the Society of Women Engineers, and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers. Through partnerships like this, we have come to understand that our combined communities are stronger together. We have come to recognize that we are all working toward the same goals – diversity, equity, and inclusion for all communities and have learned that we can support one another through the adversity and challenges our communities face day in and day out. As such, today and every day, we stand with our black brothers and sisters in solidarity against the continued violence and systemic oppression of their communities. #blacklivesmatter

What do we tell our children, our students?
- Expressions from Alabama State University President, Dr. Quinton T. Ross Jr., on recent national events surrounding the death of George Floyd.
- By Dr. Quinton T. Ross Jr., President of Alabama State University.

"For the past few days, I, like many others have been viewing through the lens of the media, the reaction of our country to the deplorable and senseless death of yet another defenseless black person at the hands of a white police officer, a tragic mockery to the truth that Black Lives Matter. Similar to other Americans, I am overcome with a range of emotions.

As the father of two sons and as a black man myself, I can assure you that I am furious and deeply saddened by the death of George Floyd, as I am by every senseless killing of black males and females in America. It could have been either of my sons, my brothers, my nephews or nieces, my friends or even one of my students who lay on the ground, pleading for mercy on that horrific day. 

Looking into the eyes of my 11-year-old son and trying to help him comprehend what happened and what is happening in our nation, I am cognizant of the fact that I am old enough only to have read about the many civil rights protests and nonviolent demonstrations that have afforded me the opportunities that I have enjoyed during my lifetime.  While I was not an eyewitness to the protests, I do try to paint a picture for my son, drawing from my exposure to many civil rights icons and their recounting of historic events of the past, such as the Montgomery Bus Boycott, the march from Selma to Montgomery, the brutality of law enforcement officers such as Bull Connor and the story of Ruby Bridges. I am emotionally distraught about the stark parallel of our nation's present state of affairs and our nation's historical past.

I have been giving thought to this national crisis, especially as it relates to Alabama State University's rich history and her overwhelming contributions to the advancement of civil rights in the nation.  I am one of thousands of students who have matriculated and emerged from ASU with purpose and a true understanding of social justice and responsibility. At ASU, we learned the importance and the power of the vote.  The call to public service and advocacy was ingrained in our DNA by O' Mother Dear.

While I attempt to give some sensible explanation to the most recent senseless acts of brutality, I have reflected on my first real encounter with the reality of racist police violence against blacks in America.  It was the spring of 1991, just prior to my senior year in college, and I had just been elected President of the Student Government Association. This was the time that our nation witnessed Rodney King being brutally beaten by Los Angeles law enforcement officers after he led them on a high-speed chase.  I remember asking myself, "Is this what would happen to me as a black man if I found myself in a similar situation with authorities?" I vividly recall how the nation erupted into protests because of Rodney King's mistreatment, just like the protests that have erupted nationally because of the senseless death of George Floyd and others. Each incident is similar to the protests that happened across this nation in the 1960s due to social injustice.  As a young student, I was confused and enraged by what I witnessed. I remember the rumbling of unrest within our student body regarding Rodney King. We were all ready to act on our anger and frustration by taking to the streets of Montgomery to let our voices be heard.  Word of our intentions reached our President, the late Dr. C. C. Baker, who later became one of my mentors. My SGA leadership team and I were summoned to Dr. Baker's office, and it was there that I learned what social protesting was really all about. It is not about the destruction of property, looting or acting disorderly; it is about banding together peacefully with a common goal, with a purpose and a plan for change.  During the meeting, we discussed our desire to be heard and our passion for change, and emerged with a plan for a peaceful protest on the campus that historically has been a beacon for change—our home, our haven—Alabama State University.  This focusing event allowed me to lead my first press conference. It would be the first time I had ever spoken in front of news cameras. Every news outlet in the city was on campus that day as students gathered with community stakeholders in great numbers. I led the protest with a speech. Students and local elected officials were also able to have their voices heard as the media captured our impassioned sentiments and broadcast the event.  I share this personal experience not only to highlight the importance of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) in providing a platform for change, but also to emphasize the need to protest peacefully and with a purpose.

I offer that advice while understanding and even relating to the rage that has been unleashed across the nation by the infection of racism that is more potent than ever in America. Our nation has a new and improved infection of racism when George Floyd can plead for mercy while dying publicly under the force of a racist man's knee just as his forefathers died publicly hanging from a noose. There is a new and improved infection of racism when a young man by the name of Michael Brown can hold his hands up in surrender and still be shot to death in broad daylight in Ferguson, Missouri. There is a new and improved infection of racism when a man by the name of Eric Garner in New York City can tell authorities "I can't breathe"as he is choked to death.  The infection of racism is new and improved when a young man by the name of Trayvon Martin is gunned down in cold blood while walking from the store to his home. Racism is new and improved when Ahmaud Arbery can be gunned down while jogging not far from his home. There is a new and improved infection of racism when Breonna Taylor can be shot and killed by police officers as she lay sleeping in her apartment in Louisville, Kentucky. Let us not forget the infection of racism that related to the death of Sandra Bland, who was found hanged in a jail cell in Walker County, Texas, after being arrested for a minor traffic stop. Here in Montgomery, there is a new and improved infection of racism when a man by the name of Greg Gunn, who attended ASU, is chased and killed by a police officer just a few steps from his mother's front door. Their tragic deaths made headlines, but across this nation and even in this city, we could easily add more names to the rolls of those whose lives have been so tragically cut short with no cell phone cameras to capture their last, painful breaths.

With this in mind, we struggle with the question, "What should we tell our students?"The answer that I offer you is the same that I give to my sons. I ask that you find ways to protest peacefully, including exercising your personal responsibility to register to vote and then go vote, and committing yourself to continuing your education so that you are prepared to emerge as this nation's next generation of leaders. I ask that you resist the temptation to channel your anger into destruction; instead, channel your energy into the very thing that disturbs and disrupts those who would oppress you: Education.

Our nonviolent stand proved successful in the past, and I believe it could be the catalyst for real and impactful change today. Let peace be at the core of all of our actions.

While it seems as though remaining calm in the midst of a racist storm is a signal to be disrespected, disregarded and endangered, remember the lives that were lost to get us to this day. Remember the examples of those who were brutally beaten and rose up from that brutality to walk the halls of congress, to become mayors, governors, state legislators and community leaders. They are the ones upon whose shoulders we stand. Their sacrifices have afforded us the opportunity to stand and take up the mantle of peace, justice and equality for all. 

Stay in the fight against injustice my children and my students, with peace, purpose and a plan that saves us from self-destruction and allows us all to "breathe"freely."

News media contact: Kenneth Mullinax, 334-229-4104.



Our students, like Rondriquez White, who is also the co-founder of the Nashville Chapter of Black Lives Matter, are and always have been on the front lines of change in our country's history. As an organizer of this weekend's protest when asked about the extreme heat index by the media White says, "The temperature we face, the oppression that we face is even hotter."
As the U.S grapples with the murders of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbury and many other black men and women, it is during this painful time that we explicitly condemn racism and systematic oppression, and call for genuine change. We stand with the Black community and against anti-Blackness.
AnitaB.org was founded to increase the representation of women in in technology and ensure that women’s voices play a key role in shaping the future of the industry-and the extension of the world.
In the past, living mission-while created with the most progressive intentions- has sometimes fallen short of supporting every woman. Like many organizations’ histories, ours holds moments of erasure when it comes to uplifting Black people and women, the people who need it the most. We are working hard to live our values, both within our organization and as we work with our Partners to do the same.
We cannot allow this moment to pass us by and call our Partners to take action, including:
•        Increase your diversity. Hire Black people.
•        Contribute to the organizations that support the promotion of Black and other marginalized people.
•        Partner with public officials to change laws and policing to protect everyone.
•        Support protestors throughout the country by donating to bail funds.
The time is now to change our culture, create a more equal society and move forward together.
#BlackLivesMatter

So, here we are in 2020, painfully and acutely realizing that the long-held ideals of our nation, as embodied in the Constitution's aspirations of the right to equal justice, the right to pursue happiness and the right to individual liberty, are, in fact, unfairly and inequitably distributed across our society. This, of course, has been a reality since the founding of our Republic and, although we have made progress through our struggles and our changes, it is nonetheless jolting to see these inequalities manifested through the unfair treatment of individuals based on their race and ethnicity by the very government designed to protect and defend their rights as citizens.

The blatant abuse of power by the police as exhibited in the case of George Floyd, and many others, is in many ways akin to the actual abuses of power perpetrated against Americans in ways that led to the revolution against Great Britain. The very founding of our nation was a result of these mistreatments by the ruling government itself at the time.

Individuals have rights, the government must protect those rights, and the government must not be involved in injuring or diminishing those rights, particularly in its exertion of power towards its people.

The Constitution of the United States is perhaps the most important aspirational document ever written and codified by humans to govern themselves, particularly in the sense that it leaves very little to doubt about its goals of equality, justice, liberty, and the ability to pursue happiness by the individual as its purpose. That document, the Constitution, is in and of itself our collective aspirational goal, the society we wish we could be as a people. Can we find ways in all that we do, including policing, education, and social welfare, to meet the ideals of that Constitution and all that it stands for? The answer is no, unless we are willing to face our failings, call out our injustices, and drive towards the changes needed to achieve the common goals America was built to achieve.

In August 1963, on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial, the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King in his globally noted and socially profound "I Have A Dream"speech, outlined exactly this concept of aspiration. Dr. King used the "dream"concept to describe a world in the future in which the actual articulation of the aspirations of the Constitution could be realized in every person's life regardless of their race, ethnicity, religion, or social class. He did this with a level of eloquent intensity that set the stage for the pursuit of further attainment of the American constitutional aspirations. He knew the aspirations; he knew the intent of the words and the concepts; he knew the philosophies on which they were based and that they were substantial and powerful in terms of what is a human being; he knew the struggles that preceded in the evolution of the United States; and he knew the struggle that he was a part of as a leader of the Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s, which ultimately cost him his own life.

The key point here by Dr. King, and I think the key point of the Constitution itself, goes well beyond any interpretation of the Constitution by a particular sitting Supreme Court, for as we know many of those interpretations from the past would be found today to be appalling, but rather towards the idea of fighting for and driving toward and working toward our national aspirational goals, particularly of equality and justice.

We, the university community broadly and Arizona State University specifically, are, in fact, an aspirational institution and we have, in fact, been woefully inadequate, up to this point, in our own efforts to facilitate the means by which higher aspirational attainment might be achieved for these central goals to our society. This is particularly true as we have grown and diversified as a society.

At ASU, we have taken to heart the notion of designing and building the "New American University,"a university built on the notion of maximum social inclusion, maximum academic excellence, and maximum impact on serving our communities all from the same institution. In the last 15–20 years, Arizona State University students have become representative of the totality of the diversity of our society, and we have altered the functional way in which we operate to help bring about this "New America,"this aspirational attainment of our core values, as stated through the U.S. Constitution. But, even with that, we have been too slow in the concept of redesigning, reconceptualizing, restaffing, re-empowering and enabling the institutions that we, the university more broadly and ASU more specifically, have helped to design, create, staff, and assess. Our institutions are not living up to our hopes. They are not yet as capable as they need to be to reach our collective dream.

Why is it that we still have systems and institutions that can carry out and often justify injustices in the name of the people? Why is it that we have inadequate learning and empowerment opportunities in so many areas of our society? Why do we have police officers so inadequately trained that groups of them can stand by while a person is murdered in a public display of abuse of authority? Why do we not have enough new tools for enhancing the outcomes of our criminal justice system or enough new ideas and solutions about how to address drug addiction and other powerfully negative forces at work in our society? Why have universities become increasingly elitist organizations drawing only from the cream of the cream of our society or from families producing "learning elites"from significant amounts of personal wealth and personal networks? These and many other questions are questions that we can and should not only address but attack and begin to resolve.

But, in spite of all of our efforts, we still have insufficient ideas for social transformation where it might make the most positive difference in terms of accelerating the rate of change and accelerating the rate of enhanced social justice and accelerating the rate of enhanced pursuit of happiness across as much of our society as is possible. We need to do more.

To do more, I am asking our deans and faculty and students of all of our ASU colleges to outline new initiatives, new programs, and new designs that we can initiate with our own resources and then pursue additional partners in creating and deploying new solutions. Our Watts College of Public Service and Community Solutions, our Sandra Day O'Connor College of Law, our School of Social Transformation, our Mary Lou Fulton Teachers College, and other critical ASU academic communities can outline new efforts, new concepts, and new strategies to devise new models for protecting and defending the rights of individuals; new methods, new concepts, and new tools for policing; models for justice and the law that are, in fact, implementable throughout the process and not only after injustices have occurred.

All of our schools and all of our programs, as well as all of our faculty, can engage in this process of new ideas, new designs, and new concepts, while we, as Arizona State University, continue to strive towards our aspirational goal of being the highest quality, highest performing, most egalitarian university operating across the breadth of our society that we possibly can be.

To do this, I am asking that the deans engage in a college-by-college process and that the student leaders also engage in a process for specific new initiatives that we can undertake. I would like to be able to review these aspirational attainment ideas before the opening of the fall semester so that we might get some new energy focused here as faculty and students reassemble.

If, in the interim, there are immediate ideas or immediate actions, get those to me straightaway.

My hope is that we can take a good hard look at our own intellectual underpinnings here and ask ourselves, "are there things that we can do differently or designs that we can produce or teaching and learning that we can alter that can help produce new and better aspirational attainment for the goals of our country?"

I look forward to our moving forward as soon as possible with new efforts. 


We are the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE). We take each of those words and our collective identity very seriously.
We're American. We recall that this nation was born in rebellion to oppressive tyranny and that no oppressor has ever gladly surrendered his position. We're American. We know that nativism has never been our strength; rather we have embraced the world and taken our strength from all the peoples of the world, including those who were already here.
We are a Society. We are a community of shared interests and purposes. Prominent among our shared interests is diversity, equity, and inclusion. We have spoken out forcefully in this regard time and time again including our February 1, 2017 statement on the US President's executive orders on immigration.
We are Engineers. We understand that diversity, equity, and inclusion are essential to the quality of what engineers produce. It's not a "nice to have"—it is essential. Circumstances or actions that impede diversity, equity, and inclusion are inimical to good engineering practice.
We are Educators. Whether we stand in research labs, classrooms, factory floors, or boardrooms, we seek to enlighten others to what we know and what we are learning. We seek to facilitate opportunities for all to learn to the best of their abilities, and to hold ourselves accountable for the quality of our facilitation. We recognize historical and systemic inequities in opportunities and preparation to learn and seek to ensure equitable access and success in education.
The murder of Mr. George Floyd, like that of so many others before him, was a heinous act. But it was not a singular act, or an isolated act. It was part of a pervasive pattern and practice of learned, ingrained, and automatic behaviors that have and will require persistent, consistent, and resistant action to limit and eventually reverse.
We recognize our limitations, but believe that by working together as ASEE members and in collaboration with others, we can contribute to advancing and sustaining the deep and wide change that will be necessary for this nation to begin to achieve the aspirational words that are the preamble to the US Constitution – . . . forming a more perfect Union, establishing Justice, insuring domestic Tranquility, . . . promoting the general Welfare, and securing the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity . . .
Our nation is hurting. For the last few months, we have hurt physically, financially and otherwise from the coronavirus. Now, recent events of racial injustice are hurting us in many ways that words often find inadequate to fully express.

While we acknowledge the painful reality that prejudice and bigotry exist, we stand resolute that they have no place in the Auburn Family. As an institution that values and embraces each individual, we oppose hate and exclusion and acts that promote them.

It was on my heart to reaffirm Auburn’s values. I’m confident that we, together, will work toward change and healing.

To the families, friends and loved ones of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery, we extend our deepest sympathy. Our hearts ache for both the nation we have worked to make more just and equitable and for the city we love and call home. Through our grief for the countless known and unknown victims of systematic racism, we continue to pray that we can use this moment to shine light in our communities. This is not the moment to fall into despair. The world needs our leadership and love. As our forefathers and mothers from the Atlanta Student Movement, the larger Civil Rights Movement, and every struggle for justice in America have shown us, we accomplish great things when we act in solidarity with those who fight for freedom and push America to live up to its promise.

For well over a century, the institutions of the Atlanta University Center have worked to use the light of knowledge to guide the nation out of dark times. The very existence of Clark Atlanta University, Morehouse College, Morehouse School of Medicine, and Spelman College is a form of protest in itself—a recognition that education can illuminate the path to justice and equality and a demand that it be available to the sons and daughters of the diaspora. While we are proud of the leaders in every field our institutions have sent forth into the workforce, we are even prouder of their preparation to carry forward the hard work of making the world better through ideas, innovation, creativity, courage, and determination.

What can we do, individually and as the AUC community? What is the way forward? What are the difficult conversations we need to have and with whom? What are the action plans we need to craft? These are the challenges in the days and weeks ahead. Together, we must continue to thoughtfully engage in the hard work of creating positive change in our communities and across our nation.




I write when I am bothered...I am bothered tonight.
All day, I have watched social media and news with horror as protests borne out of an act of racial violence – the murder of George Floyd - turned to violent demonstrations and even riots. As an African American I fully understand the hurt, anger and utter frustration that drives us to this point. The psychological trauma inflicted on African Americans every time a black life is cut short unnecessarily by a uniformed officer, cannot be understated, nor can it be dismissed. However, we must govern ourselves strategically and with discipline. We are strong, resilient, committed and brilliant. We must organize, plan and use our collective voices to bring about the change we seek.

I am asking you to do three (3) things:

1) Control Your Coins - Consistent, sustained economic pressure. We must stop spending and investing our money into businesses that do not respect and appreciate our buying power. Do not shop in stores where you are followed, ignored or treated rudely. We must never reward ignorance or disrespect. Today we have seen individuals post cruel and racist statements, jokes and pictures. Take note of where those people work. Report them and refuse to support the businesses that employ them.

2) VOTE. NEVER allow an election to occur without casting your VOTE. Educate yourself on the issues that impact our communities and vote out prosecutors and other elected officials who turn a deaf ear on the needs of our people. Attend candidate forums, write letters, attend meetings, volunteer and yes, donate to the campaigns of the candidates you believe in. History has demonstrated that we are a powerful voting block and when we show up!

For many Americans, and for Black Americans in particular, the very soul of the nation seems in peril at the moment. 
The horrific murder of George Floyd, captured in all its public, brutal clarity, serves as a stark reminder of the divergences between the highest ideals of our society as posited by our founders and the stark, 400-year reality for black, brown and native Americans.  It is also a reminder of the fragility of the very lives of black people, including the life of Breonna Taylor, when intertwined with the nation’s criminal justice system. It begs the question: Why is this still happening?
At the same time, we reel from the disproportionate impacts on our community of COVID-19. The higher percentage of death and sickness is overwhelming. The accompanying, record-setting unemployment and economic hardship serve as a painful reminder of just some of the profound and enduring inequities in our society.

There is a great deal of pain. The protests around the country are manifestations of a cumulative national despair.  There is a well-earned weariness here – our community and those who support it have a right to be tired, frustrated and angry.  At the same time, the protests reflect a determination to make positive change, no matter the fatigue.   As our esteemed founder, Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune, teaches us, we must be resilient. We must be energetic in not accepting the status quo, and in not letting it deprive us of our future.  We can define society up.      
And with those protests, we condemn the violence and looting of the few and celebrate the voice of the many. We hold ourselves to a higher standard. We are also watchful of the reaction of authorities and our leaders—who themselves should be held to the same high standard.
We are reminded that great institutions like B-CU, born of trauma, poverty and racism, are very much on the front lines of enabling America to fulfill its highest aims and aspirations. B-CU and other HBCUs serve as both the mirror to and the conscience of the American ideal. The role our institutions assume in serving and healing America—and the role our amazing students will assume as future leaders—has never been more critical or evident.   
At B-CU, we serve students by intentionally exposing them to ideas and experiences that will enable them to discern between what is right and what is easy, and to recognize that with the education they receive, comes a responsibility to a greater good.  B-CU fulfills its mission, in part, by bridging the gap between talent and ability, and access and opportunity.  We serve this nation through harnessing the inextricable linkages – the shared existence – that many of us hold with the communities in which our institutions were born.  For B-CU, that happens to be the former city dump, Hell’s Hole, which was the only land available to our founder. Through determination, faith and a legacy of love she transformed it into our beautiful, enduring university campus.      
In the midst of our collective national trauma, B-CU will continue to live the ideals of its founder.  We will unconditionally love and support our students and one another.  We will do what we have always done – we will rise, support one another and we will affirm the very best of who we are and have always been as a community.   



The unrest following the abhorrent viral video of George Floyd’s murder has led many of us to have real conversations with our children and families about the ugly reality of racism in America; leaving a sense of hopelessness.

How can we tell our girls (and boys) they have the capability to become the next tech CEO and in the same breath detail precautions to take when encountering individuals who are supposed to protect and serve? How can we encourage our girls to show up in society as their authentic selves when we bear witness to countless incidents that illustrate the disregard for Black humanity? How do we tell our girls there are no limits on their dreams when even in the year 2020 racial barriers continue to pervade our daily lives? There is no specific code for how to handle these traumatic incidents when they arise, but we know it starts with being intentional about keeping our children informed, empowered, and hopeful.

At Black Girls CODE, the core of our mission is to empower young women of color between the ages of 7–17 to embrace the current tech marketplace as builders and creators by introducing them to skills in computer programming and technology. Yet the foundation of our work is about so much more than just teaching our girls to write a line of code. The focus of our work is centered on teaching our girls to embrace self-actualization, self-confidence, and self efficacy; we uplift racial justice and equity so that our girls can not only survive but thrive within spaces in the fullness of their unique selves.

We must not let these incidents diminish their sense of pride, but rather use them as fuel to face these obstacles head-on, go further, reach higher and rise. Staying true to the vision of creating brighter futures for our girls, our organization will be here to support our community through this difficult time and for every step on the journey towards healing. We want to express our gratitude to those who have rallied around BGC and have made contributions to ensure we can continue to do meaningful work, especially amid uncertain times.

At times like these we are even more assured that our work is timely and relevant. We will push on together to create space for a better world for our girls, their families, and the beloved community.
Blackcomputerher:
To our community: we are with you, and we are here for you. We are also working on new programming to support you and keep us connected. We'll share more soon, but in the meantime, stay safe and take care of yourselves. 

The Bluefield State College community is united in mourning the tragic and senseless death of George Floyd. Each of us should be deeply saddened by the hate that was expressed by this terrible act. The late Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. said, "We must learn to live together as brothers or we will perish together as fools." Racial discrimination cannot be tolerated in America. Bluefield State is a Historically Black College that serves a population that is diverse, but we are a community where each member must passionately embrace the belief that people of color cannot continue to suffer because of racism. We MUST resolve to love our brother, because hatred can destroy us all. The journey forward can only be made with heartfelt, lifelong, commitment to love, to forgive and to ask for forgiveness, and to listen and learn. We lift up our collective prayers for Mr. Floyd and his family, for the African American community- both locally and nationally- and for each other. The journey will be challenging, but it can also be infinitely rewarding. As Dr. King noted, "You don't have to see the whole staircase, just take the first step." -President, Robin Capehart, Bluefield State College
In the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic and our efforts to restore campus operations, our nation has been rocked by acts of violence and ensuing unrest and disruption that have now occurred here in Boston. We are confronted, once again, by the grim reality of systemic racism in our country. The killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and others bring to the forefront these abhorrent elements in our society. At a time when we rely on our police more than ever, we watch painful examples of some officers breaking the public trust in the most egregious ways. These injustices are amplified by the vividly disparate impact of COVID-19 on African Americans in particular, as well as on other ethnic or minority communities.

We grieve for our country and those who are affected by systemic racism, just as we grieve for those afflicted by COVID-19. We will defeat COVID-19 using science and our collective will. We must commit the same will and energy to defeat systemic racism. We must reject the forces in our society that are driving us apart and commit ourselves to creating a just society.

In the current troubled climate, I believe our commitment to restoring our residential campus is made all the more important by the divisions in our country. We are working nonstop to restore campus operations for the fall and will shortly make more detailed announcements about this effort. This is critical because our residential community brings together students from every background to live and learn together, with our faculty, in an atmosphere that promotes mutual understanding and respect. And we are continually working to do this better for all members of the Boston University community. As I write you today, I recall the two months last spring when we witnessed the uniting effect on our community of the expanded Howard Thurman Center for Common Ground, before campus life was abruptly interrupted by the virus. Our return to our residential campus and our personal interactions with one another that are not mediated by a computer screen is essential to the critical work we must undertake to build a campus, a community, and a society that is free from systemic racism.

When we return to Commonwealth Avenue, life on campus will not look or be the same as it was last fall, but we can create a learning community that preserves Boston University as a beacon for the country and world. Such beacons are desperately needed in our country today. I look forward to welcoming you back to campus.
The tragic events unfolding in Minneapolis are yet another reminder that systemic discrimination and violence against African Americans still plague our society.

Since its founding, our Bowie State University community has stood for the inclusion of diverse cultures and voices, and has wholeheartedly condemned acts of violence and incivility. I am deeply troubled by the tragic death of another African American male, George Floyd, in Minneapolis and the rioting that is occurring in response.

We must not let this tragedy go unnoticed. I encourage the BSU community to continue listening to the voices of people of all races that are crying out for change. While I am disheartened by the events in Minneapolis, I know we are stronger when we stand together and use our voices for what we know is right and just for all.



George Floyd's killing was cruel, inhumane, and contemptible. The injustice of violence against black people must stop.

The history of our great university is intertwined with the pursuit of justice. Brandeis was created in response to antisemitism and bigotry. We cannot tolerate discrimination, hatred, or violence against another person based on their race, religion, or background. These values are as important today as they were at our founding.

These are not just words or noble ideas. These are principles that inspire us at Brandeis to educate, to learn, and to act.

With that in mind, I join with Mark Brimhall-Vargas, chief diversity officer, in calling for us to come together, even if virtually. In the message Mark sent on Friday, he mentioned two different events happening this week. The Heller School is hosting a conference, "Co-Constructing Racial Justice through Life and Work."And Mark will host "Coming Together to Face Systemic Racism."I hope you will join me in attending both.

As Brandeisians, not all of our experiences are shared ones. We come from different backgrounds and have different perspectives. But I know that there are some things we have in common. This includes an unwavering commitment to justice, equity, and inclusion. It includes respecting other people, no matter their background.

I hope to see you at one of the events tomorrow or the next day. Let us come together to express our commitment to ending racist violence.
We write to you today as leaders of this university to express first deep sadness, but also anger, regarding the racist incidents that continue to cut short the lives of black people every day.

The sadness comes from knowing that this is not a mere moment for our country. This is historical, lasting and persistent. Structures of power, deep-rooted histories of oppression, as well as prejudice, outright bigotry and hate, directly and personally affect the lives of millions of people in this nation every minute and every hour. Black people continue to live in fear for themselves, their children and their communities, at times in fear of the very systems and structures that are supposed to be in place to ensure safety and justice.

The anger comes from knowing that we have been here before, and in fact have never left. Rallies and protests across the country are raising voices about ongoing injustice in the wake of the killings of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, Breonna Taylor in Louisville, KY, and George Floyd in Minneapolis. As a nation, we might have thought there would be some real change after the deaths of Freddie Gray and Sandra Bland, both who died in police custody in 2015, a year in which some justice organizations reported more than 100 police shootings of unarmed black people in the United States. And this was after our nation mourned and protested the ongoing epidemic of racism with the 2014 deaths of Michael Brown, Eric Garner, Tamir Rice and countless others before and after that year.

All of these deaths "launched national conversations"about anti-black racism. And we know that so many in our community keep asking how many times these conversations have to happen before there is real change. We know there are so many in our community hurting and deeply frustrated, and things are made worse by a pandemic that doesn't allow us to be together and is disproportionately killing black people. We have not been able to gather in some of the ways that usually unite us to build collective understanding, mourn and make calls for action.

We hope that wherever you may be, you seek to effect change in your communities in the ways that make sense for you while preserving your health and safety in this time of COVID-19. And this does not apply only to members of our community residing in the United States. Tragic and traumatic examples of injustice against racial, ethnic and religious minorities persist around the world, resulting in horrific instances of brutality, incarceration and death. Our local and national government leaders need to hear from us as individual constituents in their communities consistently and persistently on issues of racial and ethnic injustice.

As a university, we have tremendous resources in our departments, centers and institutes that can help our community and our society interrogate the persistent and deeply disturbing issues related to race, racism and police violence in America. In the weeks and months to come, we will leverage the expertise of our faculty, staff and students to develop programming, courses and research opportunities designed to advance knowledge and promote essential change in policy and practice in the name of equity and justice.

We are a community that does not condone acts of racism, discrimination or violence. This cannot be accepted as "normal."We must continue to demand equity and justice for all people, inclusive of all identities. And we must continue to care for and support each other, especially in this time when we are apart.
George Floyd was killed last week by someone sworn to protect him – someone sworn to protect all of us and the liberties we enjoy. It was evil and ugly. And as Mr. Floyd begged to be allowed to breathe, other officers stood by and did nothing. 
Over the past week, I've been reflecting, like a lot of Americans. What should we do – and what should I do – in the face of evil? Americans are understandably very angry, and some have chosen to protest. The right to protest is among our most cherished freedoms, and I respect all who do so nonviolently.
Over the last few days, I have met with small groups of UTEP students, faculty, staff and alumni. I talked to them about their experiences at UTEP and in El Paso to learn if there were concerns about racism on our campus, and particularly in our campus police force.
I was pleased that, generally, people feel safe here, and they don't think that there is a problem in the UTEP police force. "El Paso is different,"several told me. Still, many feel like "a minority in a minority"and "sometimes invisible."Not all of our students know where to go or what to do if they have a problem, and many of them had ideas about how to make things better.     
It's up to all of us to ensure our country lives up to the ideals of a free and equal society, and there will be much that we will need to do in the coming months – as individuals and as a campus community. 
To begin with, I will be asking our Student Government Association, our Faculty Senate, and our Staff Council to recommend campus colleagues who will work with our Chief of Police to review our policies, procedures, practices and training so that we continue to build trust between the UTEP Police Department and those whom they are sworn to protect. Good organizations always try to be better.
UTEP has a proud legacy of breaking down barriers, as music professor Engebret Thormodsgaard did in 1956 when he cast 20-year-old Bernice Bell to play the heroine opposite a white man in an opera production staged in Magoffin Auditorium; and as Don Haskins and our men's basketball team did in 1966 at the NCAA national championship, forever changing college athletics in this country. UTEP was the first baccalaureate institution in Texas to desegregate; we have a legacy of creating opportunities for those historically underserved by higher education in America, with a student body that is over 90% minority in a top tier research university. 
UTEP will remain true to our legacy by doing good in the face of evil.

Even as our nation struggles to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic, we continue to bear witness to the reality that systemic racism and injustice pervade our society. The deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery are but the latest examples of violent and dehumanizing acts of racism across the country. I am heartbroken and outraged by these tragedies, and I know that the CMU community around the world shares my concern for the victims’ families, and for those in our community who are most impacted by these hateful acts. Please know that we see you, we care about you and we are here for you. While I recognize I cannot fully understand the pain, anxiety and fear these events inflict on Black and African Americans, including many in our own community, I know that it is up to each one of us – no matter our background – to confront and dismantle racism and injustice wherever they exist.

At times like this we must reflect on what we can do to make society, including our own community, more just. It would be inadequate to restate our commitment to respect, value, and foster diversity, equity and inclusion across our community. We know we have much work to do to live out these values at Carnegie Mellon. Learning about each other’s lived experiences; engaging with and supporting colleagues; challenging injustice when we witness it; and, especially, actively listening to each other will truly help us build the campus climate we seek.

Uniting in the face of challenging times is the Carnegie Mellon way. Acts of solidarity at The Fence, community discussions and listening sessions have helped us all grieve and heal together. Although we cannot gather in traditional ways, we will be working in the days and weeks ahead to curate virtual opportunities to consider actions we as a community can take to be the change we wish to see in the world. In the meantime, we ask our entire community to come together, with humility, compassion and empathy, to support one another, including those who are feeling especially vulnerable now.

With great respect for you and every member of our community,

Six years later, the words are the same.

I can't breathe.

After all of the mourning and protests, the lawsuits and training, the promises made and lessons learned, nothing, it seems, has changed.

Lying on a Staten Island sidewalk in the summer of 2014, Eric Garner said "I can't breathe"nearly a dozen times as a police officer's arm stayed tight around his throat.

Last Monday in Minneapolis, George Floyd repeated the same phrase—in his case, with an officer's knee pressing into his neck.

The local protests that followed have spread across the country, reaching Cleveland on Saturday. Ours opened peacefully, but devolved soon after marchers reached the Justice Center a few blocks away. Protesters pitched water bottles and spray-painted walls, officers released tear gas canisters, and before long, police cars were engulfed in flames.

Today protests continued in communities nationwide—and even extended to London and Berlin. In Cleveland, meanwhile, officials announced a noon curfew for downtown to allow time for clean-up of streets and stores.

But what about the systemic racism cited so often in recent days? How can a city, a country, "clean up"that?

We cannot—should not—ever try to wipe away the past.

We need to know it. Own it. And commit to forging a better future.

Four months after Eric Garner died in 2014, Tamir Rice was shot and killed by police while playing with a toy gun outside a Cleveland recreation center.

He was 12 years old.

The following year, the city accepted a 110-page settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice. The document required sweeping reforms to address the department's record of excessive force and urgent need to restore community trust.

The monitoring team's most recent report, issued in September, found force incidents fell by nearly a third compared to 2017.

That team, including deputy monitor Ayesha Bell Hardaway of our law school, still found shortcomings, in particular in terms of resources for training and data systems. Nevertheless, the group concluded the department had made "substantial progress."

While the medical examiner ruled Garner's death a homicide, the officer who choked him never faced charges. Nor did the one who killed Tamir. On Friday, Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin was arrested and charged with third-degree murder. He appears in court tomorrow.

Small steps, true. But in a moment of so much anger… and pain… and sorrow, they matter.

In the often-quoted words of the Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. "…the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."

As an institution of higher learning, we have a profound responsibility to the future. When it comes to this moment, how can we best begin to fulfill it?

This week, we will provide opportunities to engage, and share resources for those who would like support. Tonight, though, we want to remind you of a part of our legacy: The first Commencement address Frederick Douglass ever gave came at Western Reserve College in 1854.

"The relation subsisting between the white and black people of this country is the vital question of the age,"he told some 3,000 in attendance. "In the solution of this question, the scholars of America will have to take an important… part."




As we navigate these unprecedented times, we are now forced to deal with a series of tragic events. The unconscionable deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery were unnecessary incidents that have drawn national and international attention. Many people realize that this can and should be the moment to move America forward — into an era of social and economic justice, equity, and stability. We, as a nation, must do better.

Representing the two oldest Historically Black Colleges and Universities in our nation — Cheyney University of Pennsylvania and Lincoln University of Pennsylvania — we stand together against racial injustice. America's HBCUs are in a unique position to be at the forefront of this effort. Our institutions exist because there was a time when universities did not accept African Americans into the ranks of their student population, so we created our own. Now, more than ever, our vision and our voices must be heard.

We call on our students to focus their energy on bringing constructive change to the society in which we live. We ask them to use the modern technology and resources that previous generations did not have as the means to adapt, to overcome inequities and to change our communities for the better. Most importantly, we want our students to stay safe at all times, whether they decide to express their voices at home or in person at peaceful demonstrations.

We are reminded of the words of two prominent alumni of our storied institutions. They are just as relevant today as when they were first spoken and penned:

"…We do solemnly pledge ourselves to assist by our means any suit brought against the perpetrators of outrages…"

– Octavius V. Catto, Cheyney University, Class of 1858

"O, let my land be a land where Liberty
Is crowned with no false patriotic wreath,
But opportunity is real, and life is free,
Equality is in the air we breathe."

– Langston Hughes, Lincoln University, Class of 1929

We are in challenging times that require unity and a sense of purpose. Cheyney University and Lincoln University stand united in the fight for social justice.

Regrettably, African Americans are continuing to be targeted across our great nation. The Claflin University community calls for prayers for the family of George Floyd and all other victims of reported aggression by law enforcement against African Americans and people of color.
After the protests have ended, America must find ways to heal by restoring "Peace with Justice." The work will be hard, but through transformative education, unity, and a true commitment for a changed nation we can move forward.
Corrective action strategies must reflect immediate tools for corrective systemic and cultural change. Only through transformative education, is it possible for shifts in both behavior and mindsets to occur toward more positive humanistic outcomes.
In essence, a cultural shift must occur throughout all of society, especially police precincts, court systems, and prosecutors. Society can no longer tolerate:
•        Treatment of African Americans as second-class citizens.
•        Hasty and unjustified judgment based on the color of one's skin.
•        Excessive harm and brutality to African Americans by law enforcement officers
•        Education and more effective training of law enforcement officers are needed within training academies, and all systems governing the safety of our nation's citizens. African Americans must cease to be marginalized, brutalized and/or murdered by justice systems based on ethnicity.
The pathways for transformation in thinking and shifts in mindsets against such brutality is at the heart of Claflin University's new Center for Social Justice. Our Center will work across disciplines, communities, and demographics, to be a game changer regionally, nationally, and internationally. Our Center, though its programming, will foster collaborations and greater understanding of social justice issues throughout the region and beyond.

Claflin University, the first historically black college and university in South Carolina, is the place where the lives of young African Americans have been shaped for the future for more than 150 years. As such, we see it as our role and mission to be the place to re-shape systems and faulty mindsets that continue to marginalize and bring harm to these future leaders. We desire to be the catalyst for:
•        Helping justice workers around the nation learn how to embrace diversity.
•        Restoring "Peace with Justice."
•        Reducing violence against African Americans.
Our response to the continued violence against African Americans indicates a need for immediate cultural shifts in how African Americans are treated by reported "peacekeepers" around the nation. While many law enforcement officers are performing their duty with dignity and respect toward the public, there still remain too many others who abuse their roles. African Americans are dying and suffering at the hands of many law enforcement officers due to systemic racism and faulty underlying psycho-cultural assimilated orientations of race. While the current protests highlight this crisis, a real solution involves immediate and systemic change in both the mindset and behaviors of everyone involved in all areas of law enforcement and the criminal justice system, past and present.
The Center for Social Justice will provide a platform for our mission to lead a national movement of change. The following is a list of the Center's upcoming projects and activities that will affirm our leadership in this national movement.
1. Day of Reflection Vigil in memory of George Floyd and other recent victims of reported aggression by law enforcement against African Americans and people of color. This vigil, scheduled for June 19, will be a virtual event given the accelerated numbers of COVID-19 across the U.S., the increased risk of African Americans contracting COVID-19, and the number of people across the U.S. and the world who will join our prayer vigil.
2. Transformative action within the highest levels of government. Claflin University is calling on the U.S Department of Justice to partner with us to change the systemic violence towards African Americans throughout this country.
3. Transformative action with partners around the nation. Claflin University will convene the first National Summit for ending violence against African Americans. The Summit will unveil the infusion of anti-racist training resources to adequately support the training and empowerment of all levels of people involved in law enforcement across the country (developed by Claflin University) to confront both conscious and unconscious marginalizing views of minority groups. Representatives from various law enforcement agencies across the nation; HBCUs; UNCF; NAACP; local, state, and national representatives; and other local and national community groups will participate.
4. Annual training and certification programs will be offered to employees at all levels of law enforcement and the criminal justice system through our Center. The focus will be on cultural competencies, urban/rural policing, emotional intelligence and race relations.
5. The development of a "Peace with Justice Covenantal Statement" to be signed by all law enforcement officers prior to beginning service at their respective agencies.
6. The development of agreed upon actions to be taken by both African Americans and law enforcement in the event, for example, behavior after a traffic stop by law enforcement officers.
7. The development of a "Bill of Rights" for African Americans who feel they are being targeted because of their race which will carry a review by boards governing all areas of law enforcement.
Through these initiatives coordinated through the Center of Social Justice, Claflin University will remain at the forefront in the struggle for social justice, economic empowerment, and political equality.


Over the past several days, Clarkson University has joined the nation in grieving the death of George Floyd. The subsequent protests are more than just a response to an isolated incident. Change is necessary.
Clarkson’s core values call us to work towards addressing deep-rooted issues of racial inequality at the heart of these events. We must do so both locally and nationally through intentional actions and with respect to the dignity of our community members.
To our students, employees and alumni who are hurting, we offer our support and our resources.
For those who want to do something to make a difference,  by using our individual and collective voices participate in our Community Meeting on Thursday, June 4 at 7pm Eastern time
connect to the Clarkson community members below and reach out to your elected officials (https://usa.gov/elected-officials) to share the change you want.
I, like many others, am deeply saddened by recent tragic events nationwide and the deep divisions that still threaten our ability to move ahead as one nation.

Let there be no doubt: Racism, injustice, violence, brutality and hatred, in any form, cannot be tolerated.

Amid the turbulent times of 2020, we find our Clemson family physically apart due to COVID-19. Still, we can and should reach out to those in our family who are hurting or in need.

We also can put into practice our Clemson values: We value the rights of others. We are respectful of each other and our individual differences, beliefs and ideas. We actively listen and communicate. We seek to understand one another’s challenges, and are tolerant and forgiving.  And, we come from diverse backgrounds that make up one inclusive Clemson Family.

Our work is not only in the moment, but it also lies in the daily development of our University community, as we work to ensure that everyone feels welcome and valued as a part of this Clemson Family.

As we continue to prepare our campus for the return of our full community this fall, we must keep working to repair the world every day, step by step, to make Clemson and our world a better place for us all.

We can, and must, do better if we are to build a truly inclusive Clemson community. That work has never been more important than it is right now.

My entire leadership team and I are committed to continued progress in this area. Should anyone have ideas they would like to share with us, I encourage you to reach out to us at UnitedClemson@clemson.edu.


It pains us to see racism grip our nation and cause suffering in Black communities. This must stop.
Code.org stands together with the black community- our employees, partners, teachers, and their students-in the fight against the systemic inequity, racism, and injustice in the United States.

I have been contemplating the role of a university, especially in times of great crisis, this last week of May 2020 when the right words are so hard to come by. At William & Mary, one important role is continually to call ourselves to awareness of our history, in the present. As the great American writer James Baldwin taught us, "not everything that is faced can be changed, but nothing can be changed until it is faced."

None of us can ignore the turmoil, the heartbreak, of the racial divisions in our country — a cascade of grief for Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd has brought it to the fore. The racism and injustice we continue to witness bring grievous hurt to our communities. It comes to us at a moment when so many in this nation and the world are vulnerable, intensifying the loss and weariness of pandemic. We are facing again the legacy of our country's founding, that did not recognize the full humanity of all peoples. African Americans in our communities are asking, in this moment, do you recognize my full humanity? We do. We will face this with you.

A critical role of a university at moments of crisis is to rededicate ourselves to the propositions that sustain a pluralistic democracy. We recognize that we are still far from realizing them for all: fairness, respect for the human dignity of others, evidence-based argument, scientific discovery, the pursuit of opportunity and safety and equal justice under the law.

As a public university in Virginia, dedicated to the perpetuity of democratic institutions, it has never been more important that we commit ourselves to change that advances these values. We must find it within ourselves to look for hope. And as we face unspeakable acts, we must be there to help lift one another's heavy hearts — so we can study together, learn and work together, toward a more humane and free world. The past week's events demonstrate how much farther we have to go.

As we search for paths forward during these uncertain times, the role of a university provides some clarity and William & Mary's core values of belonging, respect and integrity provide direction. The diverse communities and perspectives we convene — to grapple with our imperfections and our legacies of inequality — are our best hope for empowering those who study here to build our future together.
Dear Mines Community,
For the past week, the news has been dominated by the tragic death of George Floyd and the ensuing protests, civil unrest and destruction. It has been difficult to watch and to process—the wrongness of the death, the intense anger and emotion of the protestors and the widely varying responses of our elected leaders.
Events like this and others over the past few years force us to face the uncomfortable reality that racism and bias are prevalent and persistent. They also provide the impetus for us, as individuals and the Mines community, to reflect on who we are, what we stand for and what we should do going forward.
We are a caring community that has embraced and is working toward achieving the aspirations expressed in our strategic plan for diversity, inclusion and access. We naturally feel for victims of racism and bias, we hurt when members of our community are hurt and we have pledged to create a community that supports the education and careers of students, staff and faculty from all backgrounds.
Our Achilles heel is that many of us do not understand with depth the issues at play today. Most of us do not come from backgrounds where we have had to endure racism—either based on the color of our skin or our country of origin. This can make us blind to our biases and unable to see the actions we need to take to support the success of all members of our community. How many of us can imagine being raised with a deep-seated fear of law enforcement personnel or being concerned for our life when going out for a run? That is reality for some members of our community.
In response to current events, we wanted to do something more than just issue a campus note that expresses outrage or rejects persistent and systemic racism and promises a better future. We decided instead to use this opportunity to challenge ourselves as campus leaders and all of you as community members to learn how to be more effective advocates and allies for those who experience racism and to develop a deeper understanding of the law enforcement community.
Our Mines DI&A team will follow up with our plan for the former—they already have a list of resources for you to learn more, ways for us to take meaningful action and opportunities for new campus programming. Our Mines Police Department is taking the lead on the second topic. They will be sending an email telling us a little about themselves, their training and programs and the town hall-style discussion they envision that includes participants from our police department and local law enforcement professionals from surrounding communities.
In the last few months, we have seen how individual and collective action can flatten curves and change outcomes. As we have faced the COVID-19 pandemic, we have become adept at putting aside our own self-interests and acted on behalf of our neighbors and larger society. We have spent hours educating ourselves about a menacing threat and using that information to adjust both our actions and our thinking. We can do the same thing, climbing together, as we progress toward creating the community we aspire to have at Mines.
And, as always, we are interested in your thoughts and suggestions.
Stay well and stay safe, Orediggers,
Paul C. Johnson, President and Professor
Amy Landis, Professor and Presidential Faculty Fellow for Access, Attainment and Diversity
Dan Fox, Vice President of Student Life
Dustin Olson, Chief of Police and Director of Public Safety
Rick Holz, Provost and Professor
Kirsten Volpi, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
As protestors gather in cities around the country to express their outrage over the atrocity of George Floyd's death, and as we grieve other incidents of hate and violence perpetrated against people of color—from Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky to Tony McDade in Florida and Chris Cooper in New York, we are united in our anguish and anger.

To the Black members of our community who are hurting so badly, your friends and colleagues all wish we could ease your pain. We are heartbroken for the families of those who have died at the hands of hate and for those who have endured racist incidents they will never forget. We are heartbroken for those protestors who have come together to be heard and who have been met with violence. And we are heartbroken for the young people around our country who must be watching and reading the news and wondering, "When will it stop? When will it change?"

As President of Colorado State, I affirm that it is not enough to commit to being a university and a community where hate and bias and racism are not tolerated. We are committed to being anti-hate, anti-bias, and anti-racist.

And because I recognize the inadequacy of my words during this painful and uncertain time, I urge all of you to read the powerful statement that the Office of the Vice President for Diversity released this morning. I echo their words, in hope that doing so brings some comfort:

To our Black and African American community members: we see you and we are here for you. Our hearts are with you. Our words and actions are with you.
I am writing in both a personal and an institutional capacity. Like everyone, I have been reflecting on the events of the last week with an increasing sense of anguish at the human suffering we are witnessing and of alarm at the national crisis we are facing in our political system.

Until last Friday, I did not think it was possible for me to forget even for a moment that we are in the midst of an historic pandemic, bringing untold human loss and crossing a numerical threshold of unimaginable proportions. But the horrifying ending of the life of George Floyd, a citizen in the very system of justice intended to protect him, and us, which then, along with other recent tragic deaths, drew back the curtains on centuries of invidious discrimination against African Americans, and others, did that. My hopes for a renewed sense of national purpose to continue the heroic efforts of so many, over so many generations, to change once and for all that terrible course of history have been raised, and then deflated. We are at a point in our history where political leadership is not only absent but also disturbingly confounding of the fundamental norms and values that take years and years of hard and determined work to develop—and yet are always so fragile when pitted against the worst instincts of human nature. My concerns here are not partisan, but basic to our culture.

Like so many others here, I have chosen to dedicate my life to sustaining and building academic institutions, and my beloved Columbia, specifically. There is no question that the expectations of intellectual character we choose to live by in the academic world are extreme, and we cannot reasonably expect them to set the bar for ordinary political deliberations and interactions. But what we are seeing today—which unfortunately included just in the last week an unfounded attack on our research and researchers, as well as on the University itself-is at the opposite end of the spectrum. If this were a single incident, that would be one thing, but in the current way of behaving, these become acts of intimidation and dangerous mischaracterization of expertise, one of the hallmarks of a descent into authoritarianism.

In the face of all this, it is only a start to express empathy and solidarity with those in our community who are experiencing loss and apprehension. But I certainly do so here, on behalf of all of us. Universities are not perfect and we have to accept our share of responsibility for the state of affairs we have today. But we are determined, even more so now, to change and to be better. More than anything we will continue to provide the society and the world with all the knowledge we can preserve and create and with a new generation of citizens and leaders who are prepared to live by, and fight for, the values of respect for reason, the love of ideas, and the wish to use these to care for others. 

We say it often and we don’t say it lightly: one of Concordia’s greatest strengths is our diversity.

As a university with international reach, our thoughts are with Black communities across North America as yet another horrifying incident of racist police brutality exposes the terrible grip that systemic racism continues to wield in our contemporary world.

Before Concordia became the university it is today, events in the late 1960s at one of our founding institutions, Sir George Williams University, changed the discussion about racism in Canada. Our campus has long been known for its accessibility and openness, offering opportunities to individuals and communities who were not finding them elsewhere.

Concordia does not tolerate racism or violence of any sort. The university stands in solidarity with those who combat hatred in any form through peaceful means.

We will continue to promote our values of diversity, equity and respect on campus for all. We must also recognize that we are many voices at the university. We come from profoundly different backgrounds and social positions.

With this reality in mind, two years ago Concordia launched a three-phase consultation to develop a strategy for advancing Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) in all aspects of university life. It happens that right now we’re entering the final stage of that process and will be hosting consultation sessions this month to present our findings. 

This isn’t the time or place to recite the initiatives Concordia has undertaken to address racism. Instead, it is, unfortunately, another occasion to acknowledge that there is much more to do as we pursue our mission to create a more just society and brighter future for all through education.

Finally, we recognize that many members of the university community may need support right now. Concordia has people ready to listen.

    Please visit the International Students Office, Multi-Faith and Spirituality Centre, Health Services and/or Counselling and Psychological Services.
    Students can also call Empower Me at 1-844-741-6389 for 24/7 counselling support over the phone.
    Employees can contact the Employee Assistance Program at 1-800-663-1142 (English) or 1-866-398-9505 (French).

The events of the past week come at an especially trying time. It is customary to say of COVID-19 that we are all in this together. And we are. But the past several days are a stark reminder that the health of society also depends on other forms of collective vigilance.

     Like so many of you, my family and I have been reeling over the events of the past week – events for which words seem inadequate. The images we have seen and the sounds we have heard have horrified us and broken our hearts. We are ashamed of the injustices that are perpetrated in our country, every day, against people of color; and of the reality that 155 years after Cornell was founded to help heal the wounds of a broken nation, that nation is, in many ways, still so badly broken.

    The extraordinary times in which we are living are shining a spotlight on so many issues of equity, and the lack of it: on the ways that rights and opportunity are unevenly distributed across our society, and the worth of our labor and our lives unequally valued. As an academic community built on the bedrock values of diversity, inclusion, and openness, we have an obligation to ensure that the forces of these events and our feelings drive us not backward, but forward. Over these past days, the words that have resonated with me the most, as I have struggled with the question of how our community can best embrace our collective challenge, are those of the Rev. William J. Barber II, spoken to an empty church in Goldsboro, North Carolina, this past Sunday: "We cannot try to hurry up and put the screams and the tears and the hurt back in the bottle, just to get back to some normal that was abnormal in the first place. Hear the screams. Feel the tears. The very people who have been rejected over and over again are the ones who have shown us the possibility of a more perfect nation."

    Words are important. Words matter. But our words – of sympathy, of support, of shared pain – are not enough. While the challenges are enormous, and we cannot fix them on our own, that does not absolve us from taking whatever steps we can to fight against systemic racism and structural inequality. As a community, we can and must act, through our teaching, our research, and our engagement, to stand up for those who are oppressed or marginalized, to educate ourselves and others, and to work to ensure that we – our entire society – do better.

    Here are some of the things that Cornell will do immediately:

    Strengthen Community Involvement in Public Safety

    Cornell's Public Safety Advisory Committee (PSAC) is composed of students, staff and faculty members who advise Cornell University Police on issues of public safety and victims' advocacy. The committee, which last met in April, makes recommendations to improve campus security policies and procedures and reviews issues that affect the overall safety and well-being of Cornell's diverse community. I have asked the PSAC to redouble their efforts to engage our community, with a specific focus on procedures and training in the areas of use of force, de-escalation techniques, and cultural competency.

    Summit with Regional Law Enforcement Agencies

    In addition to the work of the PSAC, the university administration has convened discussions in recent years with representatives of regional law enforcement agencies, including Cornell University Police, the Ithaca Police Department, the Tompkins County Sheriff's Office, and the New York State Police. These conversations have touched on shared interests, with a focus on understanding and sharing best practices around law enforcement interactions with communities of color. We will organize another session as soon as possible and include student, staff and faculty representatives in this important, ongoing conversation.

    Community Conversations on Race and Racism

    Using the community chat framework, the Office of Human Resources will be offering 75-minute Zoom sessions on topics such as institutional racism and the context of the current protests, ways to be an ally to our Black colleagues, and how to engage in proactive and meaningful dialogue around difficult topics such as racism. Details on the programs, and information on how to register, will be sent to all staff and faculty members by Vice President Mary Opperman early next week.

    Campus Community Book Read

    As a campus community, we have a collective responsibility to engage in difficult but critical conversations – to listen genuinely to, and learn from, one another. To help bring focus to these conversations, I invite all of you to participate in a Community Book Read of "How to Be an Antiracist," by National Book Award winner Ibram X. Kendi. We will soon provide all students, faculty, and staff with information about how to access an electronic copy of the book, along with a schedule of virtual discussions which will take place over the summer. I hope you will choose to read the book and to join in the conversation.

    Dialogue with Local Community Leaders

    I will be meeting next week with a diverse group of local elected, nonprofit, business, and faith community leaders to review the events of the last few weeks and consider how we might advance town-gown initiatives to further support the needs of our friends and neighbors.

    These plans are in addition to the ongoing work of the Belonging at Cornell framework that emerged from our diversity and inclusion initiatives, many of which were proposed by the President's Task Force on Campus Climate and/or the Provost's Task Force to Enhance Faculty Diversity. More than three-quarters of the goals laid out by the Task Force in 2018 have now been achieved, including the creation of a mandatory Intergroup Dialogue Project experience for all new undergraduates, an improved bias reporting process, implicit bias training for all faculty search committees, and increased support from the provost for faculty hires that advance diversity.

    All of this work will continue, but so much more needs to be done, at Cornell and beyond. I want to close by echoing the words of the Rev. Barber, in saying that there will be no return to "normal" from where we are right now. We are in a time of profound societal change – change that we, as a community and a society, have the power to influence and to shape. We can, and we will, rise to this challenge. Our own consciences demand it, as do our values as a community, and our ethos as Cornellians.
The amount of pain and suffering we are witnessing and feeling is only a snapshot of a broader social reality. We, and everyone before us, have had a role in arriving at where we are today. As such, it is of paramount importance to step up and take a stance. It is our responsibility and a moral imperative to not stand by and simply witness the events around us. We must collectively find our voice and reject racism and inequality. Silence perpetuates, doubt reinforces, and rationalization of incident after incident only compounds the pain so many in our society continue to endure.
While CRA has a long history of celebrating, promoting, and advocating for inclusivity, we cannot be satisfied with continuing the status quo. We will continue to actively stand against discrimination and hatred. We will find new ways to use our voice in Washington to advocate for policies that address the inequities that exist in our field. We will amplify the efforts of our membership organizations wherever we can to help them improve the spaces they occupy and create an environment that is more welcoming, just, and equitable to all. Only together can we begin to right the long history of wrongs that have led us to this place and time.

We start with acknowledging the issues by talking to those around us and explicitly stating that we stand with them when they stand against discrimination and hatred.
We know that racism:
•        Is systemic and institutionalized, was intentionally designed, and established well before the foundation of our nation.
•        Continues to oppress people of color around the world – denying basic human rights, denying opportunity, and even more tragically denying many of their very lives.
•        Is learned behavior that may be unlearned through education, compassion, empathy, and action.
•        Drives a wedge between communities, and in doing so limits the enviable quest for a society steeped in respect.
•        The privileged benefit from its existence and must be willing to sacrifice to overcome it.
•        Lives in our homes, schools, workplaces, parks, churches, stores, amusement parks, government, law enforcement – it lives in us all to varying degrees.
To stand against it, we:
•        Acknowledge the existence of racism within our communities and commit to defeating it.
•        Call out and reject rationalization of incidents and distortion of information.
•        Educate ourselves and those around us to be better equipped to address racism in its many forms.
•        Stand up against the status quo by using our voice and agency.
•        Commit to systemic change in laws, policies, procedures, etc.
•        Dedicate all necessary resources to create lasting change.

We stand in solidarity against racism and injustice. #BlackLivesMatter #CSforALL:  As CSforALL, we acknowledge that current systems are inherently flawed, biased, and unequal. Today, in solidarity with the fight against systematic racism and white supremacy, we say this with increased emphasis. CURRENT SYSTEMS ARE INHERENTLY FLAWED, BIASED, AND UNEQUAL.

We extend our support to ALL who are actively working to identify, change, repair, and replace the systems that cultivate inequity.

Educational equity can never exist in communities where life and liberty are not fundamental rights.

#BLACKLIVESMATTER 




The tragedy of George Floyd's death in Minneapolis is heartbreaking, yet all too familiar. From Trayvon Martin to Eric Garner to Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor, as well as earlier this week in Central Park, we have seen too many deaths and incidents of harassment perpetrated against the African American community. Racism and its deadly consequences are rooted in United States history. Slavery and its legacy live on, and these incidents make all too real the impact of this history.

In the past few weeks, we have witnessed the jarring violence of racism in images in the news and social media. Even in such unsettling times, these events are still occurring and prove that our country is still not immune to racism and the hatred it brings. These events cause grief, sadness, anger and frustration at our inability to conquer racism and protect our loved ones and our communities.

In our grief, let us pledge to work for change, to seek reform and to hold each other accountable for taking a stand against injustice. Let us work to become instruments of peace. As Dr. Reverend Martin Luther King once said, “Darkness cannot drive out darkness; only light can do that. Hate cannot drive out hate; only love can do that." In these times of darkness, let us protect and care for one another. The DePaul University community will stand together in solidarity against racism and hate.

At DePaul we are not indifferent when we see that the dignity of entire communities is not respected; whether it be through violent conflict, subtle discrimination, overt negligence of rights, or words and actions of hatred. These facts continue to generate anxiety and suffering, driving communities apart and putting peace, development and democracy under mounting pressure. We are DePaul, a united diverse community. Following the inspiration of St. Vincent de Paul, we promote, respect and protect the dignity of all.

For those who are struggling with recent events, I want to remind community members that University Counseling Services and the Religious Diversity and Pastoral Care offices are sources of support for those who seek assistance in these stressful times. 

We in the Drexel community are disheartened, disturbed and enraged by the pervasiveness of racism and violence against African Americans — most recently, George Floyd's senseless death in Minneapolis police custody, which prompted the demonstrations in Philadelphia and every other major city.

The tragedy of George Floyd's death, and the recent killings of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky, are just the latest examples of our nation's abject failure to address the root causes of inequality. At a time when the African American community is bearing a disproportionately heavy burden from the COVID-19 pandemic, this unrelenting racial violence against the black community exacts a tremendous physical and emotional toll.

We are living in what the American Psychological Association has described as a "racism pandemic" that exacts a heavy emotional toll. We understand that black individuals carry an additional burden of fear and anxiety, simply by nature of the color of their skin. As the APA states, "If you're black in America — and especially if you are a black male – it's not safe to go birding in Central Park, to meet friends at a Philadelphia Starbucks, to pick up trash in front of your own home in Colorado or to go shopping almost anywhere."

We are painfully aware that our campus community is suffering, and that anger and fear are dominating the lives of many of our students, faculty, professional staff and alumni. Many students in Philadelphia are on the front lines of peaceful protest in this city, and students who are home in other parts of the country are doing the same. They are rightly shocked when they are met with resistance. We are proud of their activism and courage, and we support their actions.

At times like this, it is imperative that we harness the values of our campus community to insist on change wherever we are, change in our country and change on our campus. As a university community, we can strive for an extra measure of compassion and understanding as we move forward to action. We can take the time to listen to one another, to have hard conversations about racism, to confront uncomfortable truths about ideologies of white supremacy, and to use what we learn to create an anti-racist campus free from intolerance and hatred. These dialogues are a first step to create a more equitable community as an ongoing aspiration for our University.

On Friday, June 5, at 12:30 p.m., we are opening up a space for dialogue about racism and the difficult path forward to become active allies in the fight against racism. We hope you will join this dialogue and let us know your plan to attend this inaugural virtual conversation by responding at this online link.

We call on all members of the Drexel community to insist on a more just and equitable future, and to speak out in peaceful but defiant resistance to the racial injustice endured by the African American community. We stand with the Drexel community — our students, faculty, professional staff, trustees and alumni – in calling for an end to the racism and discrimination in our country.

We hope you will join this dialogue on Friday and for future conversations, and we urge you to stay safe.
This week, as the United States passed the grim milestone of 100,000 lives lost to the coronavirus, the horrifying death of George Floyd has drawn national attention to fundamental and systematic disparities of justice in our nation. The events in Minneapolis have occurred on the heels of the murder of Ahmaud Arbery, the shooting of Breonna Taylor and in the context of the disproportionate impacts of COVID-19 on communities of color, including here in Durham. For many people at Duke and elsewhere, the pain, trauma and sense of hopelessness is overwhelming.

Every day, throughout our country, African American and other marginalized communities have their safety and dignity threatened—in their places of work, in public spaces, and in their homes and neighborhoods. This ongoing history of structural and sustained racism is a fundamental and deeply distressing injustice, here as elsewhere.

But we as a university must do more than recognize and grieve these circumstances; we must work together to change them.  In our Duke statement of values, we affirm our commitment to trust, respect, and inclusion. In that spirit, Duke University will continue the work of addressing generations of racism and injustice, of seeking ways to approach one another with respect, and of building communities that are truly safe, supportive, and inclusive for all.

My very best wishes to the entire Duke family in this troubling time.
The ECEP leadership team acknowledges that our work to broaden participation in computing will only have its full desired impact if we actively confront the systemic racism that has led to the current state of affairs in this country:
As advocates for equity in CS, we must, in both words and action, challenge the deeply ingrained structural racism permeating our culture and our educational systems. Real and lasting change will require ALL of us to dismantle structural inequities by engaging as allies and advocates for change.



As Emory leaders speak out against racist violence, the community will come together Friday, June 5, to unite for an anti-racist world.

A university-wide online solidarity vigil is set for 4 p.m. Friday. Earlier in the day, the Emory medicine community will hold "White Coats for Black Lives" events on the Emory Quadrangle and at six hospitals. Masks and social distancing will be mandatory.

"All of us are grappling with the violent deaths of Georgia resident Ahmaud Arbery, Minneapolis citizen George Floyd, Kentucky citizen Breonna Taylor, and too many other instances of racism and violence against people of color," Emory President Claire E. Sterk said in a message sent to the Emory community May 30. "These senseless acts strike at the heart of Emory's commitment to upholding equity, diversity and inclusion. Now, more than ever, we must stand together against intolerance and racism." 

Sterk will speak at Friday's online solidarity vigil, which is hosted by the Office of Spiritual and Religious Life along with Campus Life. Other speakers include Carol Henderson, vice provost for diversity and inclusion and chief diversity officer; LaNita Campbell, director of the Office for Racial and Cultural Engagement; the Rev. Greg McGonigle, university chaplain and dean of religious life; and Olivia Johnson, a student in the Laney Graduate School.

The event will also include a reading from Jericho Brown, Emory's Winship Distinguished Research Professor in Creative Writing, who recently won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry. Attendees should register to attend and are encouraged to light a candle for those who have died.

 "The Emory community stands for justice in all aspects of our mission, and when confronted with hatred and prejudice, we must speak out," Sterk emphasized in her message. "Emory respects the dignity and value of all human beings, and our community will continue to engage in conversations that matter, no matter how difficult the dialogue, so that together, we might seek a more just and equitable world for all."

Emory President-elect Gregory L. Fenves, who takes the helm of the university Aug. 1, sent a message to the community June 2 reflecting on the tragedies of the past weeks and the protests in Atlanta and across the nation.

"The murder of George Floyd, under the knee of a police officer, horrified me as a human being and as an American," Fenves said. "Mr. Floyd's death, coming in the wake of so many other killings of African American citizens — including Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia — has unleashed anger and outrage about systemic racism that has not been addressed more than 60 years after the Civil Rights Movement started. We are still fighting the same battles and people have had enough — of racist violence, of organized hatred and of longstanding social inequities." 

But amid the despair, the Emory community has the ability to lead change "through education, research, health care and creative expression, but also by leading with your hearts," he continued, noting that he learned from his father that "it is our duty to speak up — to not be silent — so that injustice could be rooted out and overcome. 

"It is my hope, then, that the tragedy of George Floyd's murder and those before him will awaken us all to our deepest flaws and help us heal, change and create a better future, together," Fenves said.

Interim Provost Jan Love called on the Emory community to remember that "education is only one tool, but it is powerful" and to note that the university's motto — "the wise heart seeks knowledge" — "deliberately combines head and heart."

"Righteous rage is a healthy immediate emotion in response to the outrageous violence we are witnessing perpetrated against black people," Love said in June 3 message to the Emory community. "If you want to be part of meaningful, productive and life-giving change, definitely get mad, but then get busy. We all have work to do. Let's do it together."
White Coats for Black Lives

The Emory School of Medicine community will gather in seven locations earlier on Friday for "White Coats for Black Lives" events. Participants will kneel for 8 minutes and 46 seconds in remembrance of George Floyd, as well as countless other victims of racist violence. 

"Our aspirations for a racism-free world seem so very, very far away. For that, we should all be sad, angry, and at the same time energized to do all that we can to serve as forces of change to support each other, regardless of race, and to confront both racism and the racists who would seek to divide and damage," Emory Healthcare CEO Jonathan S. Lewin said in May 30 message. 

The events take place at 1 p.m. and all are welcome to attend; masks and social distancing will be mandatory. Locations include the following: 

    School of Medicine and Clifton Campus (EUH): Emory Quadrangle
    Emory University Hospital Midtown: Orr Building Courtyard
    Emory Saint Joseph's Hospital: Meditation Garden
    Emory Johns Creek Hospital: Classrooms A & B, Lower Level
    Emory Decatur Hospital: Front Plaza by the flagpole
    Emory Hillandale Hospital: Main Entrance
    Grady Memorial Hospital: Main Entrance on the corner of Jesse Hill and Gilmer Street





Our world is in pain, from ills both medically treatable and socially teachable. Florida Tech is proud to have one of the most diverse student populations of any U.S. university. Justice and equality are core principles that we value here, and education sheds light where there otherwise was darkness. I look forward to the conversations we will have as a community of learners when students arrive for fall classes. Until then, I hope that all of you stay safe and healthy, open your minds to ideas that make you uncomfortable, and always treat your fellow humans with dignity and respect.




We are going to keep this statement brief. Words are failing all of us in the wake of George Floyd's murder. When leaders reach for words like outrage, horror, or despair, they only do more damage when they are not matched by action. As James Baldwin once famously said, "I can't believe what you say, because I see what you do."

So, no words without action. We are determined to keep George Mason University true to its motto, to be a place of "freedom and learning."We will take whatever steps are necessary to ensure every member of Mason Nation, and every visitor to our campuses, is safe: physically safe, emotionally safe, culturally safe, and intellectually safe, to become who they want to be.

To do that, today we directed the senior leadership of Mason to conduct a thorough review of our academic, research, public service, student service, campus law enforcement, and alumni offerings that contribute to social justice, racial equity, and peaceful conflict resolution. And we have directed them also to root out areas where we have fallen short of our intentions, through either conscious or unconscious bias.

Where we have services and expertise to offer a hurting, grieving community, we will step up – to the Mason community, to northern Virginia, to the national capital region, and beyond. We simply will not allow this moment to divert Mason from the long-standing pursuit of access to excellence, which is our ultimate tool to fight the perpetuation of racism.

And where we learn we have failed the diverse community we so proudly serve, we will direct necessary resources to fill the void. The COVID-19 pandemic has put us under unprecedented financial duress, but nothing is more strategically or morally vital to our future than truly living up to our mission to be an "inclusive academic community committed to creating a more just, free, and prosperous world."

In the weeks and months ahead, we will have more to say about what we have to offer to advance social justice and healing, and about what changes we will make to improve how Mason will better serve the community and the nation as a whole. We invite you to stay tuned and be prepared to act with us.

Our nation is fighting two pandemics – the COVID-19 virus, and the pandemic of racism in America. George Mason University will address both with the same vigor and sense of urgency.
Like everyone in our community, I write to you today feeling sad and angry about the brutal killings of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor, along with the racist incident in Central Park. 

I cannot begin to fathom the hurt GW’s Black students, faculty and staff may be feeling. My heart goes out to all who are suffering and may not feel safe. 

Please know that we continue to offer support and resources and are planning some online community events that are referenced in this message from Vice Provost Caroline Laguerre-Brown and the Office of Diversity, Equity and Community Engagement.

While I wish we had the opportunity to host these conversations and support one another on campus, I know that we remain a strong community, and we will find ways to connect until our planned return to campus this fall. I look forward to working together—harnessing the power of the community that comprises this great institution—to address racism and injustice on our campus and in our society.
Like many of you, I have struggled to process the senseless, heartbreaking killing of George Floyd by a police officer in Minneapolis. It is hard not to see a pattern of violence against black people when this tragic death comes on the heels of Ahmaud Arbery’s shooting right here in Georgia, Breonna Taylor’s in Kentucky, and so many others before them across our country. I acknowledge the pain many members of our community are feeling, and I stand in solidarity with our African American brothers and sisters and all people of goodwill, as we find a path forward.

There is much soul-searching we need to do as a society. We all share in the responsibility to deliver on our foundational belief that all people are created equal and are endowed with the same fundamental rights. While we demand change from those with the power to enact it, we must also ask what each of us can do to make good on that promise. And that includes all of us at Georgia Tech.

For the past few months, we have worked together on a new vision of inclusion, public service, and impact. That vision requires that we open the doors of opportunity to more people of underrepresented backgrounds. That we reduce barriers of access that still persist and that have nothing to do with talent. That we reject the status quo and do better. That we listen to and work with our students to create a more inclusive environment where people of all backgrounds can learn and grow. That we educate students who can think critically about the society we live in and can lead us to a better place.

As scholars and researchers, we need to ask ourselves how the science and technology we advance and the theories and solutions we propose help all of us live better lives. As alumni and leaders in business and society, we need to hold ourselves to a higher standard of equal opportunity, inclusivity, and impact.

Last September, we had the privilege to meet, listen to, and honor the first four African American students in the Institute’s history. That day helped me better appreciate our long struggle to become more just and inclusive — and how, by being more just and inclusive, we have become much stronger. Today, we must reflect on how much further we have to go.

I encourage all of us at Georgia Tech to be true to our motto of Progress and Service, to deliver on our mission to develop leaders who advance technology and improve the human condition. Those aren’t just words on a page. We have a responsibility to our campus community, to our local community, and to our nation to help change our world for the better. We have a responsibility to empower and include more people, backgrounds, and perspectives in the process.
The senseless killings of Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd have brought forward understandable pain and anger about racism and violence against black Americans. There is no place for racism and violence in our society or at Georgia State.

As a society and a nation, we must be better. The racism and violence that plague our society must stop, and the healing must begin.

Atlanta‘s many decades of peaceful protest and advocacy for social justice have resulted in real and positive change in our society. Georgia State is an example of that change. Racial exclusion was replaced with inclusion, and racism was replaced with black students excelling as academic and community leaders. We’re on the right track, and through continued hard work and sustained commitment we will together help bring an end to the pain and injustice that ail our society.

Now, I ask each and every member of the Georgia State community to stand in solidarity in rejecting racism and violence and to commit to building a better future where opportunity is real and just.


The current state of affairs in our nation today saddens and
enrages me.  Equal justice under the law
is a cornerstone of liberty, but this was not the case with Mr. George
Floyd.  He was murdered by a white
Minneapolis policeman who put his knee on Mr. Floyd's neck until he died.  The policeman in question and those who stood around and watched this crime being committed have now been arrested, but
should have been arrested immediately. 
It is my hope that they will all be prosecuted to the fullest extent of
the law. 
As president of Hampton University and one who witnessed and
participated in the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950's and 1960's, I am
pleased to see those who have initiated peaceful protests expressing their
concerns about police brutality, particularly towards African Americans.  During the late 1950's and 1960's, I participated
in marches and other peaceful protests that were led by Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr.  I was also the vice-president of a statewide student Civil Rights organization. 
My father was a building contractor and Civil Rights
leader.  Therefore, our household was one of those homes that was a meeting place for the local organizations.  It also served as a rest stop for out of town
travelers who could not use public accommodations because of the racism of the
time.  For those travelers, most of these
visits occurred on the weekends and might include a meal, a glass of tea or
lemonade, a nap on the living room sofa, or an overnight stay.  Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. visited several
times although I do not recall him spending the night.  His brother Rev. A. D. King was a frequent
visitor and overnight guest.  Their
visits always included interesting conversations.  I shall forever be indebted to my father for
allowing me to sit in on some of those meetings.  He gave me permission to be present with the
proviso that I could not ask a question, venture an opinion, or otherwise
speak.  As he would say, "You are to
listen and learn."
In these meetings, there were conversations about successes,
failures, problems, promises, and plans for progress in the Civil Rights
Movement.  Some of the attendees urged
the abandonment of peaceful demonstrations and encouraged violent responses
that matched the batons, bullets, hoses, and dogs used by police against
us.  Dr. King spoke out strongly against
the use of these tactics.  He felt that
it would hurt our cause, and he was proven right.  In that same vein, I think that our cause is
hurt today when we focus more on retaliation and less on seeking police reform
and justice.
While peaceful protestors rally to make their voices heard,
the violence, looting, and destruction of property are not the solution. These
acts hinder the cause of justice that so many are seeking.  Peaceful demonstration is a part of African
American history, but engaging in the above-mentioned acts hurts our cause. To
be sure, there will be criticism for those of us who believe in peaceful
protest to achieve desired goals and objectives.

 

I do not have all of the answers, but three specific
thoughts come to mind.   First, now is
the time for us to again come together in our homes and churches to have
conversations about how we can move forward as a people and as a nation to end
police brutality against African Americans. Secondly, every municipality in the
country should establish a colloquium board to facilitate dialogue between
representatives of the police and the African American community to include
ministers, educators, organizational leaders, and other citizens of
good-will.  Thirdly, every state and
local police academy as well as other providers of law enforcement officers
should establish a mandatory class on policing in the African American
community.

 

While I cannot claim to know all of the answers to these
problems nor the timeline for resolution, I do know that nothing can be
accomplished unless we work together for the betterment of ourselves, our
communities, and our nation. Until this happens, justice will not served.  All of us must understand the immorality of
racism as we support the victims of racial discrimination.





The last several months have been disorienting for all of us. COVID-19 has profoundly disrupted the lives of people worldwide. It has caused more than 365,000 deaths around the globe and more than 100,000 in the United States alone. Forty million Americans have lost their jobs, and countless others live in fear of both the virus and its economic consequences.

In the midst of this incomprehensible loss, our nation has once again been shocked by the senseless killing of yet another black person—George Floyd—at the hands of those charged with protecting us. Cities are erupting. Our nation is deeply divided. Leaders who should be bringing us together seem incapable of doing so.

I cannot help but think back to 1968, the spring of my junior year in high school. First, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated, then Bobby Kennedy. Riots broke out in nearby Detroit, as they did across the country. Then, like now, our nation was hugely polarized, and we desperately struggled to find common ground that might unite us. 

At the time, hope was in short supply. It seemed difficult to imagine how we would move forward, but we did. As I think about the challenges that we face today, I return again and again to what I believe:

I believe in the goodness of the people of this country—and in their resilience.

I believe that all of us, liberal and conservative, Democrat and Republican, whatever our race or ethnicity, want a better life for our children.

I believe that America should be a beacon of light to the rest of the world.

I believe that our strength as a nation is due in no small measure to our tradition of welcoming those who come to our shores in search of freedom and opportunity, individuals who repay us multiple times over through their hard work, creativity, and devotion to their new home. 

I believe in the American Dream.

I believe in the Constitution, the separation of powers, the First Amendment—especially the right to a free and independent press that holds those in power accountable, and to a free and independent judiciary.

I believe in the 14th Amendment’s guarantee of equal protection of the laws—for everyone, not just for those who look like me.

I believe that no person is above the law regardless of the office they hold or the uniform they wear. Those who break the law must be held accountable.

I believe that one measure of the justness of a society is how it treats its most vulnerable members.

I believe we must provide opportunity to those who may not encounter it on their own so that they may achieve their full potential.

I believe in the power of knowledge and ideas to change the world, of science and medicine to defeat disease, of the arts and humanities to illuminate the human condition.

This is just some of what I believe. I hope you will pause during these troubled times to ask what you believe. Even more importantly, I hope you will find the strength and determination to act on your beliefs—to repair and perfect this imperfect world. Those of us privileged to work or study at a place like this bear special responsibilities. As Luke teaches us, from those to whom much is given, much is expected.


Recent months have cast a long shadow as the pandemic continues its deadly toll on the nation ravaging Black, Brown and Native American communities in particular.   And in the midst of such anguish, the images of Black Americans treated without humanity and – in some cases – brutalized in the last moments of their earthly lives' triggers waves of emotion including staggering grief and righteous anger.   

This constant attack on the Black experience must end.

I am the proud father of two precocious teenagers.  Like many parents we have very purposely had "The Talk"– the unwelcome but necessary conversation about how to prepare for engagement with law enforcement. Watching these modern-day examples of social injustice and unrest in the presence of my 15-year-old son has brought up some difficult conversations. He reminded me of a time when we were heading to campus and were pulled over. I personally don't recall all the details of that stop. However, my son vividly remembers the anger he felt as a result of the interaction. Upon seeing the news out of Minneapolis, he turned to me and asked, "Dad, should I just fall to the ground if a cop approaches me?"Praying for the right words to say, I told him that he should remain calm and try to express himself to the best of his ability. Yet, even after struggling through that conversation, the myriad names of innocent Black lives taken through lethal force  – young and old, men and women –  testify to the insufficiency of that advice. 

This moment of compounding crises leaves little doubt that the daily experience of so many in our community remain marked by heightened vulnerability and a likelihood to encounter deadly force at the hands of misguided individuals or those whose bigoted views betray the oaths they swore to protect and serve.  

Howard University emerged from the ashes of the American Civil War, a conflict that raised but hardly resolved the racial divide in this nation.  Firmly rooted in a promise that offered the transformative power of education to all, Howard has consistently taught that the highest use of knowledge gained at the Mecca is demonstrated in service above self; focused on addressing systematic injustices and entrenched interests antagonistic to our enjoyment of life and liberty.  Our scholars have enlightened, our physicians have healed, our lawyers have advocated, our activists have agitated, our entrepreneurs have built, our counselors have comforted, and our artists have enriched even life itself.

Our nation would be a shadow of itself and remain as imperfect as it was at its inception without the contributions of Howard University and all it stands for. 

In the context of current events there must always be accountability for all found responsible through a fair and thorough investigation so that justice is served. Yet even as we see individual perpetrators on our screens, we must remain mindful that the distorted worldviews and ugly biases have too often been codified into inequitable or predatory systems are equally culpable.  The book of Ephesians reminds us "For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places."

We were born for such a time as this. And I am convinced that institutions like Howard University are destined to continue to build, mold and train the leaders who will help bring needed change to the structures of our society.

No pandemic, no declining economy, no period of prosperity, and no cure for every medical ailment will undo or hide the realities of the Black experience. We must bring consistency to that struggle and focus our intellect and passion daily to prepare for the hard work that must be done to confront evil and systematic oppression. 

As students: remain vigilant about your studies. You are matriculating through Howard University for a purpose that is greater than yourselves. You are the hope of our ancestors and despite the new challenges that will come our way, each day that you remain resolved to focus on your destiny is a day that brings us closer to resolution to many of our world's dilemmas.

As faculty: continue to focus our energies and concern on our students so that they would be nurtured, thrive and excel. We all are intricately woven into the fabric of the Howard University legacy.  Keep researching, writing, and speaking out to craft solutions to the contemporary challenges we face.  We must be diligent in our work and conversations with students to hear and walk with them through these trying times. 

Let's not forget that we are all living these experiences in our daily lives outside of Howard. It is everywhere that we are. Let's first start by not looking past each other wherever we may be and work on actively loving each other. 

In this moment it is necessary to grieve over another life taken unnecessarily and those who loved him who are now broken and left behind to mourn.  It's okay to be angry. It's okay to be sad. It's okay to feel numb. Stay there as long as you need to. I encourage you to take those feelings and channel them into something durable. Write about it. Sing about it. Participate in the electoral process and vote about it. 

We must remember the names of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Atatiana Jefferson, Breonna Taylor and the countless other lives gone too soon.  

We can honor their memories through a life of purpose in confronting and correcting those skewed systems until they respect the humanity and inherent dignity in each of us.

You have noticed that we haven’t posted much lately. As Black Women, we are taking time away from social media for self-care and processing these events individually.
We hope that you are too doing what you can to protect your peace.
{Self-care resources in Bio}

The IEEE Computer Society is, and remains, strongly committed to equity, diversity, and inclusion and we see no place for hatred and discrimination in our communities. Equity, diversity, and inclusion are central to the goals of the Computer Society and all of our activities. We are proactively supporting diversity and inclusion with the creation of a new taskforce this year that will address ways the Computer Society can improve its mission to better serve those most under-represented in our community. However, we know there is more we can do to support these ideals of equity, diversity, and inclusion.

We are ready to listen. Please send your suggestions to inclusion@computer.org and your comments will be shared with Computer Society leadership and the Computer Society Diversity & Inclusion Task Force.



History teaches us that silence is acceptance. This isn't the time to be quiet. At #icsme2020, we strive to build a safe, diverse and inclusive environment. We support and uplift the Black voices in our community. Today—and always—we stand in solidarity with the Black community.

As the events following the tragic death of George Floyd in Minneapolis have created unrest in our city, state, and nation, I want to reaffirm our unwavering support of our students, faculty, staff, alumni, and Bronzeville neighbors of African descent. Simply put, the university unequivocally condemns discrimination and violence against all African Americans within our community and across the country. 

The pain and outrage that many of us feel at this time is palpable. I reaffirm this university's ongoing and strong commitment against racism of all kinds. Our university is dedicated to peacefully working with our community to reject fear, violence, and injustice and to contribute to positive change in Chicago and in our nation. 

Our university was founded to bridge inequity in education and opportunity—and that informs every aspect of who we are as a university. As outlined in our Statement on Community, Inclusion, and Diversity, "We embrace the contributions that differences offer."

Please stay safe during this difficult time.
****video message***
Like many of you, I have followed the events in Minneapolis and the demonstrations in cities around the nation in response to the tragic death of George Floyd with a mixture of deep sadness, frustration, anger and disappointment. My heart goes out to all those feeling pain and anguish over this senseless death and to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives in the protests of recent days or who have suffered loss and damage in other ways. It is truly difficult to comprehend this tragedy and to find the right words to console the many people, especially members of the African-American community, who are hurting right now and hoping that justice will ultimately be served.  

To echo IU Vice President James Wimbush, who eloquently expressed his sadness and great concern earlier today on the reaction, in his home city of Indianapolis, to George Floyd’s death, the list is far too long of those black and brown individuals who have been subjected to disturbing violence in recent years. This list underscores the racism, bigotry, intolerance and hatred that too many members of our society, especially people of color, are forced to confront on a daily basis. It also draws our attention to the deeply disturbing growth in recent years here and around the world in the number of hate groups, as well as the immensely concerning increase in the number of acts of hatred and violence against minorities.

Here at IU, students of color now make up more than a quarter of the university’s total enrollment. Hence what is happening in Minneapolis and other cities around the nation serves as a powerful reminder that we have a special obligation to work to ensure that our campus communities are places where differences of all kinds, whether of race, ethnicity or belief, are respected, valued and protected, and where hatred, bigotry and intolerance will be powerfully condemned.

We are all members of an educational community, and as such, we must always, as part of the very core of what we do, face the challenges inherent in understanding and evaluating the ideas, assertions and arguments that come from other perspectives, other traditions, other disciplines and other beliefs, as we pursue our fundamental mission of searching for knowledge and truth. At the same time, we cannot afford to ignore the lessons drawn from the serious and informed study of present-day racism and intolerance and their deep connections with centuries-old traditions of suspicion and hatred. Much important scholarship is taking place at IU in these areas, and that scholarship has never been more important.

We must continue to insist that there is absolutely no room at IU for discrimination or harassment based on anyone’s actual or perceived race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin or political beliefs. We see our diversity as one of our cardinal virtues. We are extremely proud of our students of color and their achievements – students who are such a vital part of the cultural and historical fabric of our institution, but we will have failed them if we cannot provide to them campus environments where they feel safe, supported and respected. 

In the days and months ahead, we must strongly reaffirm Indiana University’s fundamental commitment to diversity and equity. We must condemn those who seek to divide us based on race, ethnicity, national origin and other areas. We must join together as a strong and vigorous educational community to be inclusive, supportive and welcoming to all. And we must always stand up for what is good and right.

#BlackLivesMatter is not just a cardboard sign. White educators and PD providers: you have a role in ending systemic oppression. Have conversations about race in your classroom. Embed Black history in culturally sensitive curricula. Work to abolish the school-to-prison pipeline --see the effects of policing on yr own students. Support students as they work thru racial trauma. Really ask yourself what "equity" means in your work. No matter whether you can do it in the streets, you can in the classroom. https://twitter.com/trussleaders…/status/1267333391604527104
Like many of you, I have followed the events in Minneapolis and the demonstrations in cities around the nation in response to the tragic death of George Floyd with a mixture of deep sadness, frustration, anger and disappointment. My heart goes out to all those feeling pain and anguish over this senseless death and to the families and friends of those who have lost their lives in the protests of recent days or who have suffered loss and damage in other ways. It is truly difficult to comprehend this tragedy and to find the right words to console the many people, especially members of the African-American community, who are hurting right now and hoping that justice will ultimately be served.  

To echo IU Vice President James Wimbush, who eloquently expressed his sadness and great concern earlier today on the reaction, in his home city of Indianapolis, to George Floyd’s death, the list is far too long of those black and brown individuals who have been subjected to disturbing violence in recent years. This list underscores the racism, bigotry, intolerance and hatred that too many members of our society, especially people of color, are forced to confront on a daily basis. It also draws our attention to the deeply disturbing growth in recent years here and around the world in the number of hate groups, as well as the immensely concerning increase in the number of acts of hatred and violence against minorities.

Here at IU, students of color now make up more than a quarter of the university’s total enrollment. Hence what is happening in Minneapolis and other cities around the nation serves as a powerful reminder that we have a special obligation to work to ensure that our campus communities are places where differences of all kinds, whether of race, ethnicity or belief, are respected, valued and protected, and where hatred, bigotry and intolerance will be powerfully condemned.

We are all members of an educational community, and as such, we must always, as part of the very core of what we do, face the challenges inherent in understanding and evaluating the ideas, assertions and arguments that come from other perspectives, other traditions, other disciplines and other beliefs, as we pursue our fundamental mission of searching for knowledge and truth. At the same time, we cannot afford to ignore the lessons drawn from the serious and informed study of present-day racism and intolerance and their deep connections with centuries-old traditions of suspicion and hatred. Much important scholarship is taking place at IU in these areas, and that scholarship has never been more important.

We must continue to insist that there is absolutely no room at IU for discrimination or harassment based on anyone’s actual or perceived race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin or political beliefs. We see our diversity as one of our cardinal virtues. We are extremely proud of our students of color and their achievements – students who are such a vital part of the cultural and historical fabric of our institution, but we will have failed them if we cannot provide to them campus environments where they feel safe, supported and respected. 

In the days and months ahead, we must strongly reaffirm Indiana University’s fundamental commitment to diversity and equity. We must condemn those who seek to divide us based on race, ethnicity, national origin and other areas. We must join together as a strong and vigorous educational community to be inclusive, supportive and welcoming to all. And we must always stand up for what is good and right.



Johns Hopkins University and Medicine shared a message Sunday in solidarity against racism. The message responds to the rise of anti-Asian discrimination during the coronavirus pandemic and the deaths of African Americans that have sparked recent protests in cities across the U.S., including in Baltimore.

Johns Hopkins released the following statement:

Dear Members of the Johns Hopkins Community,

In the past three months, across the U.S. and around the globe, we have experienced extraordinary challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In communities of which Johns Hopkins is a part—from Baltimore City, Washington, D.C., Prince George's, Howard, and Montgomery Counties to St. Petersburg, Florida, and many more—we have witnessed our African American, Latinx, Native American, and poverty-stricken communities disproportionately dying from COVID-19, while our Asian and Asian American communities have been targeted with vitriol because of the disease's origins. People have lost family members, and the economic impact of this pandemic has led to many people having lost their jobs.

This has been a tremendous burden for many to bear. The recent death of George Floyd in Minneapolis as well as the deaths of Breonna Taylor, a first responder in Louisville, Kentucky, shot in her own bed while sleeping; Ahmaud Arbery, shot while jogging near Brunswick, Georgia; and far too many others reinforce the brutal truth that the African American community still remains vulnerable to senseless violence, even during a pandemic. For those of us in Baltimore, these tragedies also call to mind the death of Freddie Gray while in police custody five years ago. And this moment serves as a reminder of the compounding effects on our communities.

Because we are all intricately connected by our common humanity, if one segment of our community is hurting, it adversely impacts all of us. This is not just an issue for African Americans; it is an issue that threatens the future for all Americans.

We hear the needs of the Johns Hopkins community to have an honest dialogue about these issues and develop steps to address them through our daily activities and relationships, scholarship and teaching, and health care delivery and leadership. We must acknowledge that these vulnerabilities to violence and health crises faced by black and brown communities are born out of continued racial disparities in education, employment, housing, and criminal justice. To that end, under the leadership of the JHM Office of Diversity and Inclusion and in collaboration with other groups across Johns Hopkins, we will host a Journeys in Healing symposium series, "The Language of the Unheard: A Virtual Town Hall on Racial Injustice," in early June. More details will follow once dates have been solidified.

We also recognize and acknowledge the anguish that these recent incidents are causing for our faculty, students, staff, trainees, and alumni across the Johns Hopkins family. We encourage you to access the many supportive services available. At JHM, these services include mySupport, Spiritual Care and Chaplaincy, the Office of Well-Being, the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, and the JHM Office of Diversity and Inclusion. University affiliates can reach out to mySupport, find student wellness resources at wellness.jhu.edu or on the Student Outreach and Support site, or contact the Office of Institutional Equity for assistance.

During this time of immense challenge, let us work together to be a light to facilitate education, healing, connection, support, and service to each other and to our community.


Open Letter to the Students of Johnson C. Smith University

The World Needs YOU Now More Than Ever 
In the midst of a pandemic that has affected nearly every continent on earth, that has exposed and laid bare the inequalities borne most heavily by the poor and underserved of our community; we now find this country in the midst of facing once again the harsh reality of the legacy of racism, the seeds of which were planted over 400 years ago on this continent. In the last several weeks we have witnessed Ahmaud Arbery's senseless killing while jogging in Georgia; black delivery men in an Oklahoma gated community being held against their will for failing to answer the questions of two white men who questioned the delivery men's right to have entered their enclave; a white female New York City investment banker call the police on a black man who merely asked that she follow the law and leash her dog while in Central Park; and most recently, the shocking death of George Floyd as a white police officer kneeled on his neck for over 8 minutes, literally two minutes after he had already gasped his last breath.

The cumulative effect of these events and similar events, which occurred in years past, has led to understandable frustrations that ask the question: When will this end? The insidious nature of racism suggests that it may not be soon, but it is my hope that you and your peers at institutions of higher education throughout this country, especially those attending HBCUs, will lead this country to a new understanding of its obligations to ensure that the inequality gap does not continue to expand and that we make certain all members of society have the opportunities to reach their full potential.

Two weeks ago, 70 HBCUs, including Johnson C. Smith University, participated in a nationwide commencement celebration. President Barack Obama was among the many people who offered words of wisdom to our graduates.  I am reminded of something he said in making an observation of the state of the world and the significance of the graduates being honored that day. To paraphrase, he said: "We need you now, more than ever!" I wholeheartedly agree with President Obama.  It is critical that your voices are heard; your perspectives are seen; and your experiences are acknowledged in helping to examine, explore and resolve many of the stresses that are threatening to rip the fabric of our society apart.

I know the events of the last few days may have you confused and wondering where is your place in the world.  I would amplify President Obama's call to you: We need you now, more than ever!  And we, the faculty, staff, administration and Trustees of JCSU stand ready, willing and able to prepare you to take on the issues of injustice and inequality facing this country and the world.

Stay safe! We are looking forward to the day when we can reconvene on campus as the unified, resilient and strong community that we are. 

Sincerely,

Clarence D. Armbrister signature

Clarence D. Armbrister, J.D.

President
As we work to reawaken our university community from our COVID-19 isolation, we also must contend with social injustice issues plaguing our country. At the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, around the country, we witnessed acts of prejudice toward those from China and other Asian countries. Now, we are witnessing protests over the killing of black and Latino individuals by law enforcement officers. This is clearly no time to be silent on issues of social justice.

A number of K-State faculty and staff have meaningfully engaged the Kansas higher education community in dialogue on these matters. We believe, unapologetically, that there is nothing to debate. Social injustice is alive and well and more often than not, finds its way to the doorsteps and lives of individuals in the most marginalized communities.

We recognize these acts of injustice may not have taken place on our campuses or in our communities, but they can still have a profound impact on our community members. Our students, faculty, staff and administrators are affected by these acts of injustice. In some cases, members of our community may think this could happen to them, their family members or their friends.

The Kansas State University Police Department is dedicated to our community and strives to earn our confidence and respect. We know this respect is hard-won and can be easily lost — it only takes one incident to erase years of goodwill. Our officers are highly professional and well trained in how to interact with our community members. We have confidence they endeavor to uphold our community values. In this time of strife, they also deserve our continued respect and support. 

At Kansas State University, we affirm the inherent dignity and value of every person and strive to maintain an atmosphere of justice based on respect for each other. We understand the impact these acts of social injustice have on marginalized communities and their allies. We stand with you and we ask our community members to demonstrate the empathy, sympathy and social responsibility that reflects the same accountability we expect of those entrusted to protect and serve.

Those who have been impacted by recent events are encouraged to contact Student Life or Counseling Services by calling 785-532-6927.

Social injustice has always been with us, but we must stand up for what's right and support those who feel threatened or marginalized.
We all have spent much of the last few days watching as the nation mourns the death of George Floyd. We join the nation in mourning. Our collective sorrow remembers Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery, two African Americans also killed this year. Our grief and pain also are tied to the reality that African Americans along with other marginalized communities are disproportionately impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.

Closer to home, two members of our beloved Golden Flashes community, state Sen. and Kent State Associate Professor of Political Science Vernon Sykes and state Rep. and Kent State alumna Emilia Strong Sykes, received threats related to their duties as elected state officials. Additionally, on May 3, an individual known to authorities for his anti-Semitic views was heard asking a store clerk in Stow the location of Kent State and made comments that could be perceived as threatening to the Jewish community. Fortunately, the individual did not make it to Kent and was arrested on another charge.

In recent statements by both Black United Students and the Undergraduate Student Government, these issues are on the minds of many of our student leaders who are actively working toward a vision of equity and justice that will shape a better future.

It is the hope and aspirations of our students, combined with the history and lessons of May 4, 1970, that remind us of the need to study the root causes of current troubles as we search for a better future. We are called to learn more about the structures, histories, assumptions, prejudices and cultures that lead to disparate outcomes in healthcare, in the judicial system and in myriad aspects of our lives. We are thankful that our Kent State historians, sociologists, public health professors, Peace and Conflict Studies and Pan-African Studies professors, and many, many others are participating in these national conversations. Understanding and improving the world we inhabit are central to what we do at Kent State, as is our commitment to kindness and respect in all that we do.

As we work to reopen our university safely, let us remember that many of our community members live daily with injustices that inflict pain, trauma and a host of other emotions. As Golden Flashes, we ask that you recommit yourselves to the promotion of equity and justice and continue to lift up our institutional values of respect, kindness and purpose. We appreciate each of you and look forward to continuing the work of making our community equitable and inclusive for all.





The recent tragic events in Minneapolis around the death of George Floyd, as well as other incidents of violence inflicted upon African Americans in our country, have shocked the nation and deeply affected all of us.  Our deepest sympathies go out to the family and loved ones of Mr. Floyd and the families and friends of those who have lost their lives to other horrific and senseless acts of racism. These events further demonstrate our need to stand together as a community and take ownership of our obligation to fight against the systemic discrimination and racial disparities that continue to plague our nation.

As members of the Lehigh University community, we must affirm our values—equality, peaceful dialogue, the free exchange of ideas and the encouragement of respectful debate—and support the condemnation and repudiation of systemic discrimination, hate and intolerance and their violent manifestation. We must continue to affirm our shared responsibility to fight ignorance, model inclusive excellence and embrace the power of diversity.

It is our shared responsibility to work together to create a society in which discrimination and racism are no longer tolerated.  We must play an active role in understanding, candidly engaging in dialogue, and solving the problems of racial inequity and injustice.

While I would not presume to speak about the experience of African Americans, I know African Americans in the Lehigh community are feeling anger, outrage and fear in the wake of the violence we have witnessed. I once again ask that we as a Lehigh community recommit to our shared values; reject hatred, bigotry and intolerance; and reflect on what each of us can do, large or small, and how we can come together with hope and determination to create a more just, actively inclusive and equitable community.




I recall, back in early January, thinking about the powerful imagery of the year 2020 and imagining a world where we would have a better and more acute vision of our collective humanity. 

Now, nearly midway through this year, the quest appears even more pressing. Collectively, we are facing the challenge of a lifetime. In the midst of a pandemic, we watch as people across North America mobilize against injustice and racism, provoked in particular by the tragic death of George Floyd one week ago.

Feelings of sadness, anger, fear, and a sense of helplessness are shared by all of us. I recognize that many members of our community, especially our Black students, faculty, and staff, may need support at this time; resources are listed below. 

Yet, in this turbulent moment, it remains critical to remember that our strength lies in our unity and in living the principles that McGill embraces in its mission. Among those principles are equity and inclusiveness. Living these principles means going beyond publicly denouncing racism and other forms of social injustice. We are also called to consider how universities have the responsibility, to confront and work to flatten social inequities through dialogue and the advancement of knowledge. Every one of us shares in this responsibility as we live through a moment in history that calls for leadership and action anchored to knowledge, compassion, and courage.

We are living during a time of profound hurt, anger, frustration and, for many, a time of deep disappointment and despair regarding the recent high-profile violent events targeting Black Americans – the most recent being the inescapable images of George Floyd, dying while a police officer knelt on his neck.   

The shocking events in Minnesota, as well as too many other similar killings in communities including Ahmaud Arbery, killed while jogging, and Breonna Taylor, who was shot to death by police raiding her home, bring much pain, anger and trauma to many members of our community, and we cannot let them go unnoticed or unacknowledged. They are incomprehensible. Unjust. Inhumane.  

First and foremost, as leaders of this university, it is important that we speak out against these atrocities. To our Black students, faculty and staff, know that we both stand with you. The university stands with you.

It is important, as Spartans, that we collectively understand and acknowledge the impact of racism and that the Black community is under attack in many ways right now. In addition to the recent deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and so many others who are targeted because of their skin color, we have a global health pandemic that is powerfully and incontrovertibly revealing the inequities in our society.  

All of this is taking a heavy emotional toll on many of our friends, families and fellow Spartans. These events remind us that we have a responsibility to engage in the work necessary to understand we live in a diverse world and a diverse campus community, and by virtue of this we also have a responsibility to each other to respond to these injustices – acknowledge them, empathize with one another and accept each other.

We are committed to building an inclusive environment here at MSU, one that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. However, this commitment must be manifested in ways that extend well beyond words. We hope you will do what you can as students, faculty and staff at MSU to fight racism, disrupt injustice and actively support each other. The next several months will test our resolve, our community and our nation. 
****tweeted image**



During the past weeks and months, disturbing, racially charged situations and tragic deaths have occurred across the U.S. – including Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, Christian Cooper and most recently George Floyd. We are now witnessing protests in cities across the U.S., some of which have been marked by violence.

On our own campus we also recently experienced the impact of racially charged posts on social media made by incoming freshmen.

One student posted a disturbing video to My Story on Snapchat. A person in the My Story group re-posted it on Twitter. Perhaps the intent of the video can be debated. Its impact cannot.

Another student used an offensive racial slur while engaging in a social media exchange with a black student from her high school.

Many of you have reached out to share the hurt, anger and disbelief you experienced upon watching the video. It demonstrates a disturbing lack of empathy and respect for the death of Mr. Floyd, his family and others who have suffered similarly while in police custody.

Many others have expressed anger and disbelief at the nature and tone of the hurtful social media posts.

After seeing these social media posts and viewing the video, I, too, was horrified. My first impulse was to rescind the offer of admission to these students. But then I was reminded of a couple of things.

Missouri State University is a public university with a public affairs mission.

As a public university we are legally required to uphold the principles of free speech embodied in the First Amendment to the Constitution. The video – as hurtful, insensitive and offensive as it is – is protected by the First Amendment, as was the language in the social media posts.

I will admit that it was tempting to ignore the First Amendment in this case. Doing so would violate our legal obligations but, more importantly, it would effectively prevent the university from accomplishing its mission.

Missouri State has a responsibility to educate students on the three pillars of our public affairs mission – ethical leadership, community engagement and cultural competence. The video and the social media posts clearly reveal that these students – and, let’s be honest, many of us – are in desperate need of education, training and experiences that will help us develop cultural consciousness as well as cultural competence.

We cannot expect or require that students come to us fully formed, possessing all of the skills and characteristics that exemplify Citizen Scholars. It is our job and our duty to help them develop these traits through education and exposure.

Recognizing the impact of the video and the social media post, these students have chosen to withdraw from the university. We had planned to allow them to join our campus community in the fall, knowing that this decision would be ridiculed, questioned and second-guessed. But it was under the conditions that they participate in additional education and training to assist them in both understanding the impact of their actions and in developing cultural competence.

Social media is rife with opportunities to damage reputations or hurt thousands of people with one statement or one video. It is important that we are all mindful of its impact and if we choose to participate, to think very carefully before we post.

As one might expect, these students have been bombarded with hate, ridicule and even death threats. Both are 18 years old. While they displayed poor judgement, they don’t deserve to have their lives threatened.

As a university, we are acutely aware that many of our incoming students of all backgrounds may have made poor choices when posting on social media when they were teenagers. These are formative years when people change and grow. As a university, we are not going to police everyone’s social media accounts. We legally cannot and, in my opinion, should not bar a student from entry for offensive comments posted as an adolescent. I believe in grace, redemption and the probability that a college education can change people for the better. It did me.

That being said, we will continue to educate our students on the three pillars of our public affairs mission. And given the current environment, we will continue to give special emphasis to the awareness, knowledge and skills required to be culturally competent in a global society and world.

Thank you for all you do for Missouri State.
We have no tolerance for discrimination or acts of hate in our community. No matter where you come from, no matter your race, gender, identity, preference or perspective, we all come together to learn, and everyone deserves to be treated with respect and to thrive.
At MIT, Commencement is the most beautiful day of the year. Even in this strange pandemic moment, this afternoon’s graduation celebration will offer us all the opportunity to celebrate the wonderful spirit, character and accomplishments of our newest graduates.

That joy is and should be perfect and untouchable.

But I write with a heart that is also full of anguish – because it is impossible to face this particular day without an overwhelming sense of concern for our nation.

The death of George Floyd and the events unfolding in Minneapolis are deeply disturbing in themselves. And of course, they come on the heels of highly charged incidents, from Georgia to New York, that highlight yet again the tragic persistence of racism and systemic injustice in the United States.

I know that the pain of these events is especially intense for certain members of our community, beginning with those who are African American and of African descent, though certainly not ending there. And I know that, in this time of tension around the pandemic and rising strains in US-China relations, others in our community are also suffering distinctive forms of harassment and discrimination.

I imagine that you may share my urgent desire to help, while feeling an awful powerlessness to do so. At this moment, let’s do what we can. I believe a place to begin is by cherishing and seeking to strengthen our dear MIT community. Imperfect, certainly. But a community with an essential commitment to facing hard facts, thoughtfully striving to correct our errors – and working together to address humanity’s greatest challenges. A community where we aspire always to treat one another with sympathy, humility, decency, respect and kindness.

Let us treasure and care for that community – and let us work to make it better.

In the days and months to come, I would like us to find meaningful ways to come together to work on these challenges, for ourselves and for our society. I have asked John Dozier, our Institute Community and Equity Officer, to guide us in this effort. You may reach him directly at jdozier@mit.edu.

For now: I take hope in turning my thoughts to the new graduates we share with the world this afternoon. Today is our beloved Commencement day, a day when we honor the achievements of our graduating students and charge them with helping to heal the world. That charge will be all the more meaningful now, grounded in the very present struggles for our nation and for the world.

With great love and concern for our community and our nation,
There are events in our days that define our lives as well as our national consequence. We are witnessing one of such moments of definition as individuals and as a nation.

Just starting to emerge from the disorienting experiences provoked by a debilitating pandemic, last week we learned about the tragedy of George Floyd, an African American man who died lying on a street in Minneapolis, while pleading for his life. This past Sunday in Bozeman, community leaders, including MSU students, thoughtfully organized a peaceful demonstration that brought together thousands in support of Black Americans and all people of color, while committing to take on the challenge of dismantling racism, seeking justice and promoting peace. I am proud to see our community members making their voices heard in peaceful, productive ways in an effort towards positive change.

At this historic hour, we stand with our students, faculty and staff of color and with every individual - irrespective of race, ethnicity and gender - who is feeling fear, anger and pain because of these events. You are not alone and we see you.

Our heart also goes out to people who are victimized and caught in the confusion created by others who want to take advantage of this situation to sow discord and destruction. We cannot condone violence in any of its senseless expressions.

We have a responsibility - and the opportunity - to work together to address the injustice and inequality that our founding as a public university sought to eradicate. As the land-grant institution of the state, your Montana State University is committed to maximizing access and success for everyone, to finding lasting solutions, and to build a better world and a more just society.

In these times more than ever, we see the value and urgency of the power of education, diversity and community. In the coming weeks, there will be opportunities for MSU students, faculty, staff and neighbors to participate in conversation and action, as part of our mission to engage with the communities we serve. As one of our institutional documents proudly proclaims, "We believe that excellence at Montana State University is best achieved through a culture of intellectual and personal growth that is diverse and inclusive."

Let us come together as one people to create an environment in which our differences are the source of our strength. 



For as long as I live, I will never forget the horrific video of Mr. George Floyd being woefully asphyxiated by the knee of a morally bankrupt officer of the law. For what seemed like an eternity, we witnessed Mr. Floyd's very breath being extinguished from him. His cries of "mama" and "I can't breathe" fell empty on the ears of the callous and cold-hearted officer. I have not been able to sleep restfully since witnessing this tragedy.

I know our community is hurting, yet again, at the sight of another unarmed young Black man die at the hands of those sworn to protect and serve. I know our blood is boiling and our emotions are high. Believe me, I truly understand! As the father of a young Black man, and as an uncle and a great uncle to scores of other young men, I have great empathy for the families who endure such atrocities of civil and human rights. No family should ever have to experience the loss of a loved one in such a brutal and overtly racist manner.

Even in light of what I've said, I say to all of us, let's stand up for the value of our lives, but if you feel compelled to protest this great injustice, please do so peacefully and with the best interest of your fellow man and woman. We must triple our efforts to rid our society of racism—which, seemingly, in the modern era, has resulted in a practice that Black male lives, in particular, are dispensable.

Go forward and voice your collective stand against injustice with vigor, passion and solidarity in the true Morgan tradition, but as you do, please do so peacefully.

United in equality and humanity,


Research and data clearly show that structural racism and the experience of day-to-day racism result in significant and compounding negative health impacts for people of color. We will highlight these data over the next few weeks and hope you will follow along.
Racism and associated health impacts.



The death of George Floyd has brought us to a point of inflection throughout our country, and it has done so for multiple reasons.

Mr. Floyd's death was captured on video, so we have been forced to see a truth we would rather not believe. That video is both heartbreaking and infuriating. No decent person could watch the extermination of a helpless human being in such a callous manner without experiencing feelings of true anger and despair.

We all have seen this story before, and far too frequently. We have watched as many, particularly men of color, have lost their lives to violence and hate. The circumstances may change, as may the individuals involved, but the result is devastatingly consistent.

Yes, we all have tried to say the right things after these incidents--we have expressed our disgust as well as our grief and sympathy.

Have we DONE the right things, though?

Have we challenged racism and ignorance, even when we see it expressed subtly in "polite company" by those we would consider to be colleagues or friends? Have we honestly questioned and explored our own biases and how they shape our behaviors? Have we worked hard enough to create diversity, and with it greater understanding of and appreciation for one another, throughout our networks and organizations? Have we been guilty of, despite our best intentions, moving on to the next crisis of the day and failing in our commitment to make positive change?

I have struggled to find the right words at this time, and to posit some answers for how we sustain the necessary systemic change. Maybe the questions I posed in the previous paragraph must be examined with unvarnished candor, thereby affecting our individual actions, our willingness to speak out and, as a result, affect those around us while strengthening our efforts to achieve systemic change.

I am extremely proud to be part of a richly diverse university community that is strengthened by its diversity. I believe NJIT serves as an example of what most communities should strive for, but that does not mean we can pretend what we have seen is not our problem. It is our problem, and we have a responsibility that we cannot shirk. Please join me in committing to not let this moment pass without becoming better as individuals and as a community. I welcome your thoughts and suggestions for how to accomplish those goals. My thoughts and prayers are with the family of George Floyd and all those who feel angry, sad, and powerless at this time. We must work hard to resolve the issue of racism thoughtfully, peacefully, and with accountability for those who disregard the value of life of our fellow Americans.

Once again, we find ourselves filled with sorrow, outrage, and grief over a loss of yet another Black person's life at the hands of law enforcement that was tragic, unjust, and avoidable. There have been numerous appalling events over the last few weeks during an already difficult time—a pandemic. While it is hard to find words to describe the shocking ghastliness of the videoed last minutes of George Floyd's life on a Minneapolis street, with a police officer's knee on his neck, the poignant and unheeded pleas of Mr. Floyd and the bystanders—as in previous occurrences—remain haunting. His cries tear at our hearts, just as the knowledge that events like this seem to happen again and again and again rips not only at our conscience but at what we all consider to be a just and humane society.

This is one of those moments when reason and knowledge and discourse, which university citizens prize so highly, often doesn't seem like enough of a response. How could they be, when these deaths keep recurring, and when racism continues to manifest itself, even in our own community?

But reason, discourse, study, evidence, analysis—those are our tools, and events like the killing of George Floyd should not cause us to set them aside, but instead to redouble our exertions to use them in the cause of addressing racism, xenophobia, violence, and hate to underscore social justice, human dignity, inclusion, and peace. Many of our scholars already study the issues so evident in the Floyd video—inequality, race, and the inequities of the criminal justice system. Over the summer, I will be examining—and I am sure this will be true for many of you, too—how else our University might contribute to the goal of creating more just practices and systems. In the meantime, on behalf of the NYU community, I offer our University's sympathies to the family and loved ones of George Floyd, with whom we grieve for his lost life and the unspeakable suffering to which he was subjected, as well all of those impacted by this and the other terrible recent events. To deal with these types of issues while simultaneously navigating a pandemic that is giving rise to differential impacts on communities of color, and in particular, those of African descent, is especially oppressive.

Finally, my heart goes out to those in our own community who have been feeling overwhelmed by grief or apprehension because of fear for their own safety, their families, and loved ones. I want to remind you that NYU stands with you, and we have resources to help: for students at the Wellness Exchange, and for employees through Carebridge. And please also note that the Office of Global Inclusion (OGI) continues to plan events for the community.



As I write this, cities across the country, including here in Greensboro and around North Carolina, are ablaze in unrest and souls in anguish over George Floyd’s death at the hands of Minneapolis police. It was a scene, unfortunately, like many we have seen before, in which the life of an African American man is extinguished in a confrontation that, at minimum, could have been deescalated; at best, avoided entirely. It leaves millions of us around our nation with a reasonable and just question: Why? In the absence of an acceptable answer – and to be clear, there is no acceptable answer – we are left with heavy hearts, sick with grief, inflamed with anger.   

I join the Aggie family in grieving the loss of George Floyd and in voicing a commitment that his death cannot be allowed to pass in vain. As the leader of the nation’s largest historically black university, an institution borne of the bigotry connected by a straight line of history to Floyd’s death, I appreciate the weight of this moment on the shoulders of our students, their families, our faculty and staff and our alumni. As we collectively bear witness to this injustice, we do so from the vantage point of our university, and the tools and knowledge we can bring to bear in this moment of pain and despair. What can our faculty and students do to bring understanding and context to this incident? What measures of change and solution can their scholarly work make clear? What light can they shed on intersecting dynamics of race, the criminal justice system, history, economics and the human psyche that will illuminate truth for a troubled nation? 

In the weeks and months ahead, I pray that the moral imperative of this moment will not fade, and that we will rise to the challenges that our leadership has prepared us to meet. If the aftermath of George Floyd’s death is, indeed, not to be mere protest but a predicate for change in which minds, hearts, policies and practices are forever altered, it will only do so if it is nourished by knowledge and truth. Let us commit ourselves collectively to surfacing those invaluable ingredients of change. 

For now, I encourage all of us to avail ourselves of the community and family ties that bind us at A&T. Lean on one another for comfort, and don’t be afraid to reach out if you are struggling. For our students, additional help is available through Counseling Services at 336-334-7727, Monday through Friday, from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. For faculty and staff, the university’s Employee Assistance Program services provider, ComPsych Guidance Resources, is here for you at 866-511-3373, password: NCAT. This service is confidential and free of charge to you as an employee.
I write today as a leader of one of the nation's Historically Black Colleges and Universities. First, I would like to express my deep condolences to the family of Mr. George Floyd who was killed by Minneapolis, Minnesota, police officers on May 25, 2020. On behalf of North Carolina Central University, I join citizens from across our nation and around the world in expressing deep concern about this blatant tragedy and condemning its perpetrators. This incident highlighted how equality and justice are not fairly dispensed in our country. 

We are all incensed by the disturbing images of African Americans whose lives have been taken violently across the nation. As we grieve and try to make sense of these tragic deaths and incidents, we also seek reassurance that justice will be served swiftly and those who are responsible will be held accountable. 

As a community of students, faculty, and staff, we must together call for the restructuring of our judicial system to create one that dispenses justice equally, regardless of racial, ethnic or sexual orientation. As an institution that was founded by a visionary and fearless leader, this university represents the values that Dr. James E. Shepard exhibited with incredible fortitude and strength as he built a progressive learning institution for African Americans in Durham in the early 1900s. Intent on his mission despite the history of oppression that African Americans and other communities of color had faced, Dr. Shepard demonstrated that no obstacle is insurmountable.

The events surrounding us today represent another moment in history when silence and status-quo are no longer acceptable. I ask you to appeal to our local, state and federal leaders to address the ongoing pattern of racial injustice and disparities that exist within our society and embrace public policies that can truly achieve this country's ideals.

I am counting on each of you, as Eagles, to lead us in seeking a more perfect union. As Dr. King said in his historic "I Have a Dream"speech in 1963, we all seek to live in a nation where we will not be judged by the color of our skin, but by the content of our character.  NCCU continues to uphold and nurture an environment of diversity and inclusion that celebrates and respects all voices and opinions.

Students, faculty and staff: In this painful time, I urge you to take advantage of the resources made available in your university community. I encourage students to contact the Counseling Center if you need assistance dealing with this very difficult moment. Faculty and staff may access the Employee Assistance Program to learn about assistance options available. 

Together, let us keep on pursuing a peaceful quest for equality and justice in the days, weeks and months to come. I hope each of you remain secure in knowing the NCCU community is standing by your side. 
he inhumane and unjust circumstances surrounding the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis on Monday have left many in our community, myself included, feeling deep sorrow, frustration and understandable anger. Over the weekend we’ve witnessed this grief and anger displayed in many ways, including a peaceful protest in Raleigh, and unfortunately, separate acts of vandalism against many of our local businesses that have done so much to help build a culture of inclusion in our community.

As a higher education community dedicated to thought and action that improves the world around us, we condemn acts of racism, discrimination and violence.

In the course of the past few months, we have again witnessed more instances of violence against people of color – including Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery – that serve as a continual and painful reminder that unjust racial disparities continue in our country. How could we not be sorrowful, and angry, at this moment? It is past time for drastically needed and rightful change.

We must acknowledge that a person’s race is still too often used to determine how they will be treated in almost every aspect of American life. And as a leading U.S. institution of higher education, we are committed to our critical role in helping right the injustices of racism and discrimination. I believe higher education can and should be a positive influence on lives well beyond academic instruction, and that we need to help lead the way forward toward equality, equity and justice for all in our country.

As the state’s largest public university, we have the responsibility to educate ourselves and those who pass through our doors to overcome ignorance, unite against intolerance, model inclusivity, and advance the dignity and power of diversity.

The events of this week must serve as a catalyst for all in our community to be unequivocally dedicated to building an inclusive environment that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. I remain committed to that goal, and expect you will do all you can in your role at NC State – as a student, faculty or staff member, or friend of the university – to eliminate racism and all other forms of discrimination.

As members of this intellectual community, I strongly encourage all of us to fight for positive change powerfully, thoughtfully and peacefully. I also encourage each of us to embrace with humility that we all have more to learn as it relates to understanding our own places of prejudice and how we can strive to overcome how these impact our own actions.

As Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity Sheri Schwab wrote in her recent Statement Regarding the Events in Minneapolis (if you haven’t yet read it, please do), Provost Arden and I have charged a task force to ensure advancing diversity, inclusion and well-being is inherent and represented in every aspect of NC State’s next 10-year Strategic Plan. We’ll be finalizing the plan over the summer, and encourage our community to provide your feedback via the Strategic Plan Task Force website.

Over the summer, I’ll also be working with Vice Provost Schwab and other university leaders to ensure opportunities for vital community discussions and feedback opportunities related to diversity and inclusion on campus when we return in the fall, in whatever format those need to take in the new COVID-19 environment.

In the meantime, please keep up with important diversity-and-inclusion-related news, events, announcements and opportunities to get involved by subscribing to the Office of Institutional Equity and Diversity’s (OIED) Diversity Digest. Also, review the Diversity web portal from the university’s homepage to find education and training resources, diversity and inclusion programs, details about NC State’s Campus Community Centers, an events calendar and more important information.

NC State’s greatest strength is its people – all its people – and their diversity of thought and experience. It is on each and all of us to fight injustice and advance a truly diverse, inclusive and supportive environment for all on our campus and well beyond. That’s what it means to be part of this Wolfpack.
As a result of the events of the past week, we are writing to express support for all of us who may be struggling to understand and react and in particular our students and colleagues of color who may be experiencing pain and anguish.

North Dakota State University has clearly stated values in denouncing discrimination, harassment and retaliation as integral to our success as a student-focused, land-grant, research university.

What that means in difficult times is we support one another any way we can. We listen, we work to understand, we actively work together toward a more inclusive and accepting community for all of us.

More formally, we remind our community of support available through the following sources:

• Confidential resources to support students are available through the NDSU Counseling Center.

• Educational and reporting resources related to equity and inclusion may be found here.

• Confidential resources to support faculty and staff are available through the Employee Assistance Program.

• The University Ombuds is a resource for faculty members, graduate students and academic staff.

We also encourage us all to continue efforts to increase our understanding by reading, asking questions, listening and welcoming one another. 
We have heard the chorus of raised voices demanding that we make real, at last, the promise of American democracy for the many millions of African-Americans who have given so much to build it. We feel, in the words of Dr. King, "The fierce urgency of now."

On Monday, June 8, we will suspend all classes and close all administrative and academic offices on all of our campuses. We will use this time and space—exactly two weeks after the unjust and inhumane killing of George Floyd—to hold a Day for Reflection, Engagement, and Action. We will join together in unity with those all around the world who are grieving and angry over persistent injustice toward African-American citizens.

We will begin with an online vigil at 11 a.m. to remember George Floyd and all African-Americans whose lives have been brutally taken from us. At 2 p.m., we will feature a conversation with Professor of Law Margaret Burnham, founder of Northeastern's Civil Rights and Restorative Justice Project, on ways we can move forward together.

In the days that follow, we will commence a series of virtual town halls on race and justice led by Deans Uta Poiger and James Hackney, co-chairs of the Presidential Council on Diversity and Inclusion.

On June 19, we will gather on all of our campuses for a Day of Solidarity. June 19, often known as "Juneteenth"or Freedom Day, is traditionally a day to celebrate the emancipation of slaves in the U.S. We will gather together to listen, to speak, and to engage one another in advancing the cause of justice.

These events are just the beginning of a series of specific actions that Northeastern will undertake.

It is important to note that we won't always get it right. We won't always find the right words. But we must work together to address the pain. We must find the solidarity that we as a society—and as fellow human beings—so desperately need right now.

There is no time to waste. Working together in mutual trust and understanding to achieve the change that we seek, let us begin.
I felt outrage and disgust watching video of the fatal mistreatment of George Floyd in Minneapolis. 

And I was further sickened this morning when our recent graduate, CNN's Omar Jimenez, was arrested live on television for, as Medill Dean Charles Whitaker described it, "the sin of doing journalism."

Our Northwestern community grieves for the many ways in which our society tolerates and facilitates injustices, demonstrated so vividly in these and other recent events. 

Dean Whitaker poignantly expressed his personal pain as a father of African-American sons. Many of the rest of us can barely begin to imagine the personal toll that racism takes on marginalized communities every single day. But we can all increase our resolve to create a Northwestern community, and a world, where all people are accorded the dignity and the safety they deserve. 

Our nation must do better, and I pledge that I, and our university, will work toward that end.
The recent killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and now George Floyd are heartbreaking tragedies that further show the injustice and systemic racism the Black community faces every day. It's been hard to find the right words for this message because I keep imagining the images and videos capturing these horrific acts and the Black community struggling to be heard when crying out for justice and peace. My heart goes out to the families, friends, and those directly or indirectly impacted.

Blatant acts of racism, hatred, and police brutality should not be normalized again.  Unfortunately, we have been here before.  Many of us remember the recent names… Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice, Eric Garner, Sandra Bland, Atatiana Jefferson, Botham Jean, Philando Castile, and now Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and George Floyd, all victims of a shameful legacy of hate.  We must continue to say the names of those lost to senseless acts of violence and racism.

"I can't breathe"were some of the last words from Mr. Floyd before his life was taken right before our eyes. They were also the last words of Eric Garner in 2014. It is suffocating to exist in a space where Black lives are considered disposable with little hope for real systematic change. I pose this question: "what are we going to do to advocate for equity for our communities and nation?"
 
As a Society within this society, we want to see justice.  We want it in the cases dominating the news but also for the 99.9% of cases most of us will never hear about.  We expect justice to be dispatched swiftly and equitably, according to the law, and not influenced by income, race, or connections.  However, we would also like to see that equality extended to our educational institutions – at every level and to companies and industries solving our countries' most complex problems.  We should not be marginalized; as descendants of those who helped build this nation, we seek full participation in all aspects of society with a fair chance to help make America a more perfect union. 

Of course, we recognize that radical change requires allies; Black people do not have the numbers or resources to bring about systemic change alone.  So, we call on those who believe everyone deserves a chance to fulfill their potential to provide opportunities, to open doorways and create pathways for those who did not have access to the resources that produce advantages.  Finally, we ask those who believe in the mission of the National Society of Black Engineers to invest in this cause so our members can thrive and continue to be agents of positive change.

Now is the time for the conversation.  Now is the time for understanding.  This is the perfect time in history for our country to embrace national ideals for all of its citizens.  We implore righteous people to honor and protect our inalienable rights to liberty, opportunity, and equality. 

We cannot remain silent at a time like this.  We must call for political action to invoke social change, to end police brutality, and dismantle systemic racism.  We are not powerless. Nelson Mandela put it best when he said, "education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world."We encourage all NSBE members and allies to take action and let your voices be heard... mentor, vote, make calls, write, participate, post, march… be the example.

NSBE is compiling a list of health, grief, and wellness support resources to assist our members in coping with all of these troubling events; that information will be provided in another official communication.  Moreover, we are developing a team of leaders to create ways for our organization to use its platform to speak out on social justice issues.  Above all, I ask you to hold on to hope, to seek refuge in faith, and the knowledge that we will get to the other side of this bleak moment.  Together, we will overcome this adversity, as we have in the past, and continue our march toward a more just society. 

Continue to encourage one another, support one another, listen to one another, and love one another. In closing, NSBE loves you, and your life matters!   


We typically share with you a weekend email update on various COVID-19 related issues. We will send the update on Monday this week. 

I ask instead that we use this weekend to reflect on the horrific events of the past week and specifically on what we as individuals, as a community, and as a nation must do to prevent crimes like this from happening again. What can we do to make things different? 

George Floyd suffered a horrendous and completely unnecessary death. His killing, and those that have come before, demand that we create a different future. This can and must be our task. 

This time, we must act. That starts with dialogue, which I have renewed with key community partners. We must reaffirm our commitment as Buckeyes to our university values of inclusion, diversity and tolerance.

Today, let us also act by reflecting on what’s in our hearts and directing our activities to collaborative efforts to produce lasting change. 
Like many of you, we are deeply saddened by the acts of brutality our country has witnessed in recent days. These images and stories are painful reminders of the persistence of racial tension in our country, and they reaffirm the urgent need to stand in solidarity with our community members of color, especially African American community members.

As Directors within OHIO’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion, we understand the limitations of a statement like this at a time when many in our community are hurting so deeply. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to pose extraordinary challenges, made even more challenging by the images of violence we see flashing across our screens.

At the same time, we know that some of you may derive great benefit from campus resources to support your psychological and emotional well-being. For this reason, we encourage all of you to seek out campus resources that can provide support and encouragement to Ohio University community members. Some of them are highlighted below:

Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS)

CPS provides mental health and adjustment services to students and also consultation to faculty, administrators and parents who support our students.

Psychiatry and individual counseling through face-to-face video conferencing or audio phone therapy are just some of the services available to students through CPS.

Staff members in CPS also make referrals to a wide range of support services both on and off campus. Students may contact CPS at any time by calling 740-593-1616. If calling after hours, press 1 to be connected to a counselor. You can also visit their website at www.ohio.edu/student-affairs/counseling.

IMPACT Student Support Meetings

OHIO students are encouraged to email diversity@ohio.edu to express interest in attending an IMPACT meeting, which is a support group convened for any Ohio University student who wishes to discuss special issues that may be impacting our community of students.

These meetings are facilitated by Dr. Kristyn Neckles, psychologist and embedded clinician for our Division of Diversity and Inclusion, on a by-request basis. 

Employee Assistance Program

Ohio University's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and Work/Life program is offered through Impact Behavioral Healthcare Services.

The EAP is available to all Ohio University employees and their family members.

Visit Impact Employee Assistance (opens in a new window)(opens in a new window)and enter 'ohiouniversity' as the username under the heading Member Login to access informational materials and resources.

Program features include confidential 24/7 live professional assistance (1-800-227-6007) and more.

OHIO’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion remains unwavering in our commitment to offering support and safety so all Bobcats in their diverse identities and experiences can find support for their concerns, worries, and fears.

All staff members in our offices — the LGBT Center, the Multicultural Center, the Office of Multicultural Student Access and Retention/OMSAR, and the Women’s Center — stand ready to offer whatever support we can to our OHIO community as we work together to create a world that is safe, equitable, and compassionate for all. We are here for you - please do not hesitate to reach out to us if we can be of assistance.

In times like these, community is the strongest antidote we have to combat isolation and loneliness. You are not alone!
We are disheartened by the racial injustices in our country & hope justice is swiftly served for the deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery & victims of senseless violence. To our Black students/employees—we see you, we hear you, we support you. Your voices matter.
I know our Monarch community joins me in expressing our collective outrage regarding the horrific and senseless killing of George Floyd. We send prayers to his family as well as our hopes that his tragic death will create not just a nationwide conversation, but a commitment from every member of American society to say "No more" to what we observed in Minneapolis or, before that, in Georgia. As a diverse and inclusive campus, we must continue to do our collective best to demonstrate for the world that at Old Dominion University we strive to learn from differences, leading to a greater understanding of one another.

 The primary role of police in America is to provide for the safety of all people by protecting them from criminals and to hold each of us accountable to the law. We expect police to apprehend criminals and work within the legal system to make certain that justice is blind and all are held accountable to the law.

We all have watched in horror videos being replayed over the past week showing the life of George Floyd brutally taken from him by a white police officer in Minneapolis, Minn., while three other officers sworn to uphold the law looked on in indifference. The officer who killed Mr. Floyd was arrested and all four of the officers were fired, but the other three officers simply went home.

Sadly, this horrific event is just the latest in a seemingly endless stream of acts of violence against Black and other people of color by police who are sworn to protect and serve them.

Mr. Floyd’s death comes on the heels of the Feb. 23 fatal shooting of Ahmaud Arbery by armed white residents as he was out jogging in a neighborhood in South Georgia. As well, the March 13 death of Breonna Taylor, who was shot in her Louisville, Ky. home by police. And the reporting to police last week of an African American man threatening a white woman when in fact he was in New York City’s Central Park to watch birds and simply asked her to keep her dog on a leash.

We continually hear speeches and testimonials about how unacceptable and terrible these acts are and how our leaders feel the pain of the Black community. Yet, nothing changes much and we act as if these horrific events are singular or isolated events. But these are not one-offs. They are the product of a failed justice system that perpetuates racism in America and too often a culture of silence within police forces that protects incompetent and hateful people simply because they wear the badge. We are condemned to relive these tragedies unless we make real change a priority throughout this country.

America must be a land of personal and equal freedom, safety and opportunity for all people. And to be certain, the police exist to protect us from predators and not to control us. That attitude should be universal in this country regardless of who we are, where we live or what we look like.

But how can we expect America and all people who live here — including communities of color — to thrive in the midst of such violence and injustice? How many times must we write the same messages expressing our outrage and hurt, sharing our thoughts and prayers for those harmed, and pleading for an end to injustice? How many acts of discrimination, injury and death must occur before our country confronts the realities of the lived experiences of people of color in our society? All of this must stop and that requires action not speeches.

Policing is a local function, but our system of policing requires systematic change across the country. On Monday, I will write the National Governors Association and urge the association and other groups to develop rules, training programs and disciplinary codes for appropriate policing to be enforced throughout America and for unions to step up and support the justice system in weeding out bad officers. Most police are good, dedicated, under-paid and hard working men and women, who risk their lives every day for the well-being of all people. They deserve our thanks and respect and they should not be subject to public scorn because we are incapable of holding some police accountable to the laws of our country and communities simply because they wear a badge.  

As a university community, we must join together to ensure that all members of the OSU community — students, faculty, staff and visitors — not only feel welcomed and safe, but experience our community as a place to thrive. Each and every member of our community must know they are valued, that they belong here, and that we celebrate the rich diversity that they bring to Oregon State University. We should not tolerate anything less. 

Our new police chief, Edgar Rodriguez understands that police must be a community partner that provide a sense of safety in the university and broader community.  As we hire officers for our police force, the Office of Institutional Diversity will continue to provide training to OSU public safety officers on implicit bias, foundations of power, privilege and oppression to ensure that our public safety practices are congruent with OSU’s values regarding inclusivity and opposing oppression. University leaders also will to seek to achieve agreements with police agencies in communities where OSU operates so that we may mutually advance inclusive justice for all people. 

The novel coronavirus pandemic has made all of us look at the inequities in our society. We call people essential workers and yet we systematically pay them less than living wages and deny them critical health care and quality education for themselves and their children, and we act surprised that they are disproportionately vulnerable to death from the COVID-19 pandemic because of pre-existing conditions and that they are disproportionately people of color. When do we get disgusted enough with what we have created and say enough? 

We have a policing problem in America, but it is part of a much deeper and broader failure of this society to live up to the promise of America, which continually eludes us.

As I prepare to step down as university president on June 30, I am confident that our university and the OSU community are in the right hands with incoming president King Alexander. He and I talk often and I know he shares my personal values and leadership commitment to inclusivity, safety and opportunity for all. I know that as OSU’s next president, he will be unwavering in helping advance the work of inclusive justice and opportunity for all that must be part of life within OSU — and across America.  Together with Chief Rodriguez, he will help us move in the right direction in our little part of the world.

In closing, I ask that each of us continue to participate in dialogue, leadership and understanding as we seek to alter the direction of society. I know this will not happen overnight, but by God it needs to happen soon. 
 It has been ten days since the world saw the video of George Floyd dying while a white police officer pressed his knee into Floyd's neck. It has been a week since protests began around the country and across New York, convulsing the city. Yesterday, hundreds if not thousands of New Yorkers gathered in Brooklyn, and then marched across the Brooklyn Bridge past One Pace Plaza, in a moving commemoration of Floyd's life. We join in mourning his loss.
 
During this time, we have been listening to the Pace Community and hearing the pain, anguish, and anger. We are reflecting on our commitments, talking with our Student Government Associations and Black Student Unions, and determining how we can move the University forward while doing more to fight for equality and justice. We know we haven't always gotten it right, and we want to do better.
 
We recognize that Floyd's death is not an isolated case. It has been three and a half months since Ahmaud Arbery was shot and killed while out for a jog; nearly three months since Breonna Taylor was shot and killed by police who'd broken into her apartment; ten days since Tony McDade was shot and killed by police investigating a stabbing. It will soon be 10 years since Danroy "DJ"Henry, a Pace student and football star, was shot and killed by a police officer in Pleasantville. We mourn those losses, too. We know there is much to be done. We are remembering and relearning the words of Angela Davis: "It is not enough to be non-racist, we must be anti-racist."
 
At Pace University, we are committed to being unbiased and anti-racist across our institution.
 
We are committed to hearing from all voices and empowering all parts of our community.
 
We are committed to standing up for what is right.
 
In the last academic year, we hired Pace's first chief diversity officer and established the new Division of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. That Division worked to update our hiring practices to mitigate bias and increase diversity, and it centralized key offices to streamline and focus their important work. There is much, much more to be done.
 
Today, we are committing to the following actions:
 

    We will establish a Presidential Task Force, composed of students, staff, faculty, and alumni and funded by the President's Office, to examine the Pace experience for all in our Community, including those who are Black, those who are brown, and those from other historically underrepresented groups. Under the guidance of the chief diversity officer, in partnership with other campus leaders, and guided by the findings of the forthcoming Diversity Climate Survey, the Presidential Task Force will design a plan with short- and long-term strategies for a more equitable and just Pace University. It will welcome input from all parts of the Pace Community. The Presidential Task Force will be formulated in the coming weeks and will issue its recommendations by the end of fall semester.

 

    We recognize that voices need to be heard and action needs to happen everywhere across the University, and we ask departments and divisions to review their areas to develop long-term commitments for systemic change. These recommendations will be developed by October 1, 2020, and forwarded to the Presidential Task Force for inclusion in the University's comprehensive plan.

 

    We will soon launch a reporting site on which members of the Pace Community can register incidents or experiences contradictory to the inclusive environment we seek to sustain. This site will launch during fall semester. Whether reported on this site or elsewhere, University leaders will always investigate and respond to incidents that are brought to our attention.

 

    In the next week, we will organize a community forum, modeled on this week's session for faculty and staff, in which all members of the Pace Community will be invited to share their experiences and their visions for how Pace can make a difference.

 

    We will design a comprehensive series of programming for the fall semester to examine racial justice in our community and our country, including honoring the memory of DJ Henry as we mark 10 years since his murder.

 
We welcome all in the Pace Community who wish to serve on the Presidential Task Force. Its agenda will not be set by the administration; it will be set by the community. The Presidential Task Force will convene in the coming weeks. If you're interested in serving on it, please contact diversity@pace.edu .
 
We had planned a Diversity Climate Survey for last semester, to capture critical voices and experiences to inform the work of the DEI Division. It will be launched when we return to campus. 
 
Fall programming already in development includes the Our Pledge Against Oppression discussion series, featuring panels on working toward anti-racism and examining race and the prison-industrial complex and a symposium on the absence of Black and Latina/o/x intellectual communities in academia; a teach-in series rooted in critical race theory; a social justice reading club; and the annual MLK lecture.
 
We have also compiled a list of resources to answer the question, "What can I do?"It is available at www.pace.edu/takeaction .
 
We know that this is just a start. But we are committing to do the work, and we will use these first steps as a basis for our future plans. We will have more information for you soon on next week's Zoom meeting, and more detail forthcoming on the Presidential Task Force and fall programming.
 
We have always believed that Pace's strength lies in its community. Despite the many and enormous challenges currently facing us, we still believe that. Let's stand up for each other, listen to each other, and work together to build an even better Pace. 



The tragic circumstances surrounding the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis, following other recent unspeakable tragedies, makes clear yet again that systemic discrimination and unjust racial disparities continue to plague our country. It is past time for change.

We cannot remain silent in the face of this heart-breaking reality. As an institution of higher education, we have an obligation to fight ignorance and intolerance, model inclusivity and embrace the power that diversity represents. 

In the face of hatred and bias, we must speak out. We must not accept apathy, indifference or silence, otherwise we allow hatred, prejudice and intolerance to grow. 

Our message today is, foremost, one of profound compassion for all who live in fear that the color of their skin, gender identity, ethnicity or religion makes them a target of hate. Our hearts ache as we can only imagine the trauma, pain and frustration that many are feeling at this time. 

This message also reaffirms Penn State’s commitment to disrupting hate, bias and racism whenever and wherever we encounter it, and to creating the most inclusive and diverse community that we possibly can – one that is free of discrimination; one that embraces differences; and one that respects all individuals. 

We support our community as you express your sadness and anger through peaceful protest, and we know it is even more challenging to support and lift each other up during this global pandemic, with the added difficulty of social distancing. However, please know that our entire University community grieves with you, supports you and joins with you as we strive for positive change. 

Our country has witnessed with horror the untimely deaths of George Floyd and Ahmaud Arbery, black men whose deaths have come even as we struggle to absorb the disproportionate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on minoritized communities. All around us, people of color are dying at a higher rate, making further visible the structural inequities that pervade every area of the American experience. 

As Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz said, "These are things that have been brewing in this country for 400 years."

It is easy to feel overwhelmed by these events and give in to despair. But we must not give up because we know that inaction supports injustice, inequity and racism. 

We must deepen our work to make our community one where justice and equity are central to who we are. We must work towards equity and justice at Portland State, in Portland, in Oregon, in America, and across the world. It will take intentional and collective action to dismantle systemic structures of oppression. 

We stand with communities in Minnesota and Georgia calling for justice, and we affirm our commitment to doing our own work to ensure that justice and equity are a core part of all of PSU.

Today, and always, black lives matter. 






Leebron: We must act to reduce deadly discrimination and racism
SPECIAL TO RICE NEWS – JUNE 1, 2020
POSTED IN: CURRENT NEWS, FEATURED STORIES


Share23
Rice President David Leebron sent the following message to the university community May 30:

President David Leebron
President David Leebron

We draw many things from being a community. We do things collaboratively. We define and share our values. We take collective joy in our successes. We commiserate when there are reasons for sadness. And we come together in times of crisis and danger.

Over the summer, when our students and also to some extent our faculty are dispersed, the immediate sense of community and our ability to rely on it is diminished. This year that is even more so since our education has been completely online since March. And although our students may still be seeing each other in classes on screens, many of the casual interactions that build our connections to each other no longer take place.

There is of course great sadness sweeping across our world and our country because of the pandemic. Many have lost friends and family members. Many more are living in isolation and under constant threat of danger to their health. Tens of millions have lost their jobs, and collectively our country is facing a level of unemployment and financial distress we have not seen in 90 years. And these burdens have fallen unequally on different communities.

And yet, amid all of that, there is now a deep pang of pain sweeping across America that cries out for recognition, that demands that our voices be heard.

Just three weeks ago I wrote on Twitter about the horrific shooting of Ahmaud Arbery, who was killed while jogging in the coastal city of Brunswick, Georgia, in late February. In mid-March, Breonna Taylor, a young emergency medical technician in Louisville, Kentucky, was killed in her apartment when police entered. And last week, George Floyd was killed in Minneapolis when an arresting officer knelt on his throat for over eight minutes.

pull quote

What these recent cases, and others, have in common is that they all involved victims who were black Americans. Black Americans who were treated as a threat when they weren’t. Black Americans who were treated as if they did not belong in a place when they did. Black Americans who were treated as if they were not a vital part of the fabric of this nation when they have fought and died and sacrificed for it as much as any others. Black Americans who were killed when the circumstances provided no justification.

There is anger and pain and fear across America, not because these are new things to deal with, but because they aren’t. Last fall, for example, Atatiana Jefferson, a young Xavier University graduate working in the pharmaceutical industry, was killed by a police officer who entered her home in Fort Worth, Texas, without identifying himself. The names of these victims are seared in our memories.

For the most part, I write to the campus about events only when they directly involve Rice, and usually when our campus is in session. But occasionally, external events, nearby or far away, are such that they reach deeply into our community and especially affect a valued part of the Rice community. And so although we are currently dispersed and these incidents did not directly involve members of the Rice community, we must acknowledge that these events cause pain and fear to a vital part of our community. It is a pain and fear that many of us have trouble even imagining. Even in the middle of a global pandemic, it is a deep and enduring pain and fear that deserves acknowledgment and caring, and recognition that we must do better.

We must therefore join with our own expressions of concern and sympathy and outrage. We must work to build an inclusive environment, one that respects and values people from different backgrounds. We must take part in efforts to reduce the deadly discrimination and racism that is an unstaunched wound in our national fabric.

And so I write today to convey on behalf of the Rice community, to all of our community, and most especially to the black members of our community, that we acknowledge the sorrow and the fear and the pain. And that we know as a university and as individuals we must contribute to healing that wound.











As an organization committed to being a voice for the under-represented, SHPE denounces all racism. We wholeheartedly support equality and enthusiastically stand with everyone who is committed to diversity, respect, and justice
Even as this flashpoint in the struggle for racial justice unfolds primarily in the US, ours is a global community. Some struggles are more visible in certain geographies over others, owing to histories of oppression, but we fully recognize that members of our community worldwide are faced with a long list of systemic injustices. The task that lies before us is one of weaving equity, inclusion, and solidarity into each of our scholarly and professional activities, so that "diversity and inclusion" are not add-ons, but deeply integrated into our every practice, whether it involves conference processes, volunteering responsibilities, or global community support mechanisms.
Within SIGCHI, we care deeply about addressing discrimination of all kinds. We are committed to bringing down barriers to equal participation — in our community and the many worlds in which we work, but we must do better. It is not enough to not be racist; we must be anti-racist. With this in mind the SIGCHI Executive Committee (EC) is committing to taking the following steps to confront racism and other forms of discrimination and structural inequity.
    Listen and Reflect: We will identify avenues for our community members to share their experiences, observations, and suggestions around representation and existing practices, so that we can all listen actively, reflect, and learn. We will work together with those whose ability to participate is impacted, to identify ways of amplifying these voices. We will organize dialogues with our members so we all may strengthen our approaches to identifying and addressing prevalent forms of discrimination, racial and otherwise.
    Act Locally: Relying on lessons learned through active listening, we will communicate practices for our community to engage and adopt in personal and professional arenas, including in SIGCHI conferences, events, and publications.
        Represent: We will conduct a systematic review of formal SIGCHI policies and regular practices to examine how best we can respond to bias and bring down barriers that obstruct equal participation for any number of reasons. Specifically, we will take a deeper look at our conferences, volunteering, and community support offerings, to assess how our community may be better represented.
Based on our active listening, the SIGCHI EC will identify recommendations by the end of September, report these to the SIGCHI community in writing, and discuss them in a (virtual) town hall before the end of 2020. We will then begin the work towards integrating these short- and long-term recommendations into SIGCHI policies and practices. Throughout this process, we will be transparent and accountable across the SIGCHI community as we work to achieve our long-term commitments.
We are grateful for the initiative that many in our community have taken in these difficult times, to raise voices against deep injustice and extend support to others affected. Still, we urge our membership — those who are able — to reflect individually and together on the ways in which systemic racism and other systems of domination manifest to threaten the principles of equity and inclusion we espouse as a community. Whether it is in our research activities, our industry jobs, or our classrooms, how might we take on the responsibility of initiating the hard conversations? And of creating the safe spaces in which these conversations may have impact? Our search for justice inevitably ties us together as humans; now is the moment for each one of us to ask — how can we move forward together, in solidarity, to effect deep, systemic change?


SFU Stands in Solidarity Against Racism: Statement from the President
June 02, 2020
Recent incidents of anti-Black violence and discrimination in Canada and the United States provide a disturbing reminder of the prevalence of racism within our societies, and have caused much pain, anger and distress for Black students, faculty and staff.

Despite our commitments to human rights, universities like SFU are not immune to anti-Black and anti-Asian racism, nor to discrimination directed against Indigenous peoples.

Only a few weeks ago, I condemned the anti-Asian racism seen in our communities and spoke of our shared obligation to oppose racial discrimination in all its forms.

The events of recent days add further urgency to this cause. Racism has no place in our society, and we have a responsibility not only to condemn discriminatory behaviour, but also to take action to support inclusion for all.

At SFU, this starts with acknowledging the role we play in perpetuating systemic discrimination, and accepting that we have work to do to ensure that our ideals for a just society are reflected in our own practices, policies and procedures.

To this end, last year we appointed an executive team led by Dr. Joy Johnson to develop an action plan to advance equity, diversity and inclusion across the university. Supported by a pan-university advisory council, the group’s mandate is to eliminate systemic barriers and inequities in access, admissions, recruitment, career development, pay, working and learning conditions, resources, retention and progression.
While that work, including data gathering, is underway, we have much more to learn and much more to do. SFU leadership is committed to growth and change, and I am grateful to many for the part they are playing in building a university community where all feel included.

For students, faculty and staff who experience grief, trauma and/or stress resulting from racism and violence, support is available:

Equity, Diversity and Inclusion help and support: https://www.sfu.ca/edi/support.html
Students: Health & Counselling Services 778-782-4615 and our free, 24/7 mental health support program, mySSP. More information on these and other mental health supports here.
Faculty and all staff: Employee and Family Assistance Program:  Homewood Health 1-800-663-1142
Interfaith Centre: 778-782-3180
 
I have been heartened, as I have said many times in recent weeks, by the energy and commitment that SFU students, faculty and staff have shown to keep our community safe from the threat of COVID-19. Let us now apply that same energy and commitment to ensuring that our community is safe from the threat of racism and discrimination.

It’s all of our responsibility to combat racism, but none more so than those of us who have benefited from white privilege.







The events of the last several weeks have left us with a profound sense of grief, anger, and weariness, but also resolve. We grieve with the family and friends of George Floyd, who was killed by the police in Minneapolis. We grieve with countless other families, including those of Ahmaud Arbery, João Pedro Mattos Pinto, and Breonna Taylor, whose loved ones died senseless and inexplicable deaths at the hands of police officers around the globe.
We are angry at the police officers, their supervisors, and public leaders who allow these actions to continue.
We have grown weary from these reports, coming on the heels of the COVID scourge which has affected us all but especially the very same groups that have been targeted by police officers.
But we are resolved. To prevent the senseless deaths of African Americans at the hands of police and the systematic racism and oppression of people of color, we must transform our anger and grief and resolve to act. We must act at every level.
As leaders of a scientific organization that cares deeply about children, we lean into the research that consistently documents the long-lasting negative effects that discrimination, oppression, racism, and implicit bias have on children. We must discover ways to support families and communities in raising children to become peaceful and tolerant citizens.
We must hold our leaders accountable. Today, leaders at the highest levels are sowing division and racism instead of bringing healing and unity.
We must raise up the voices of unity, accountability, and healing that our nation needs. We need to elevate the voices of youth. Through evidence-based programs, we need to equip them for civic engagement and leadership that will bring about the changes that society needs. We need to stand behind and support youth in creating a better future.
Importantly, we must hold ourselves accountable. As members of the Society for Research in Child Development, we must ask ourselves what we can do in our teaching, our research, and our academic work to bring about the needed changes in our society.
At times like this, we must examine our own beliefs, values, and goals. At SRCD, integrating racial, cultural, and economic diversity into the spheres of developmental science is a central strategic goal. We will continue to promote research that illuminates the lived experiences of children of color, especially in these times of increased oppression and racism. SRCD can be counted on to act based on evidence.
Finally, SRCD builds capacity, as a strategic goal. We will raise up the next generation of researchers, inform policymakers, and equip practitioners in ways that lead to healing the broken-hearted, building bridges across the partisan divides, and advancing developmental science to improve human lives -- #WokeScientist.
We cannot do this alone. We must do this in community and in collaboration. SRCD Commons has been created to grow our sense of community. There are portals for members to communicate with each other for support and information. SRCD is hosting chats, webinars, and virtual meetings with parents of children to offer counsel and support.
Let us commit. Never again.



At the heart of the STARS Computing Corps is a commitment to equity and inclusion in computing. We condemn racism. We will continue to incorporate anti-racist frameworks to guide our work for institutional change. We stand with #BlackLivesMatter






The amount of pain and suffering we are witnessing and feeling is only a snapshot of a broader social reality. We, and everyone before us, have had a role in arriving at where we are today. As such, it is of paramount importance to step up and take a stance. It is our responsibility and a moral imperative to not stand by and simply witness the events around us. We must collectively find our voice and reject racism and inequality. Silence perpetuates, doubt reinforces, and rationalization of incident after incident only compounds the pain so many in our society continue to endure.

While CRA has a long history of celebrating, promoting, and advocating for inclusivity, we cannot be satisfied with continuing the status quo. We will continue to actively stand against discrimination and hatred. We will find new ways to use our voice in Washington to advocate for policies that address the inequities that exist in our field. We will amplify the efforts of our membership organizations wherever we can to help them improve the spaces they occupy and create an environment that is more welcoming, just, and equitable to all. Only together can we begin to right the long history of wrongs that have led us to this place and time.

We start with acknowledging the issues by talking to those around us and explicitly stating that we stand with them when they stand against discrimination and hatred.

We know that racism:

    Is systemic and institutionalized, was intentionally designed, and established well before the foundation of our nation.
    Continues to oppress people of color around the world – denying basic human rights, denying opportunity, and even more tragically denying many of their very lives.
    Is learned behavior that may be unlearned through education, compassion, empathy, and action.
    Drives a wedge between communities, and in doing so limits the enviable quest for a society steeped in respect.
    The privileged benefit from its existence and must be willing to sacrifice to overcome it.
    Lives in our homes, schools, workplaces, parks, churches, stores, amusement parks, government, law enforcement – it lives in us all to varying degrees.

To stand against it, we:

    Acknowledge the existence of racism within our communities and commit to defeating it.
    Call out and reject rationalization of incidents and distortion of information.
    Educate ourselves and those around us to be better equipped to address racism in its many forms.
    Stand up against the status quo by using our voice and agency.
    Commit to systemic change in laws, policies, procedures, etc.
    Dedicate all necessary resources to create lasting change
The Society of Women Engineers is angered and saddened by the recent events in Minneapolis that led to the death of George Floyd.  As an organization we vehemently denounce racism!  Systemic racism faced by those of color in our communities across the United States has become all too familiar.  We must stand together to demand justice and work together to turn our pain into purpose.  Nothing will change if those outside the impacted communities stand by and do nothing.  We must be true allies, standing shoulder to shoulder, asking the tough questions of our civic leaders.

To support the increased participation of women and minorities in engineering, SWE became a founding member of the 50K Coalition.  Since 2015, together with the American Indian Science and Engineering Society  (AISES), the National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), and the Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE), we have been working together, using the collective impact model, to increase the numbers of engineering graduates from underrepresented populations to 50,000 by 2025.  Moreover, we have Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with the above-mentioned groups supporting initiatives like joint membership, research and public policy.  This year we are working on additional agreements with NOGLSTP, oSTEM and SASE.

We also recognize that as an organization we have our own work to do. The lack of visible diversity in our leadership is palpable.  For the past several years, SWE leadership has focused on creating a more welcoming and inclusive environment within the Society.  While our efforts may not always achieve the goals we have set forth, we cannot hope to accomplish those goals if we do not actively focus on them.  And we acknowledge that as an organization we still have a lot of work to do. 

As an organization we are committed to our diversity and inclusion principles:

    Developing women in engineering across socio economic strata and occupational focus
    Encouraging interest in and active participation of women and girls of underrepresented groups including (but not limited to) African-American, Asian, Hispanic, Pacific Islanders and Native Americans
    Supporting women and respecting their differences in family status, sexual orientation, sexual identity, age and physical ability
    Work collaboratively with men to confront gender bias and create a more inclusive engineering community

This year our SWE Senate has convened a sub-team to address the lack of diversity within our leadership pipeline.  And that work will continue in the next fiscal year.  We want to be solutions-driven.  Our KPI metric dashboard tracks the diversity demographics of both our membership and our leadership. Details will be shared on swe.org and in the State of SWE conducted every spring. We are holding ourselves accountable and we expect our members and partners to hold us accountable as well.

SWE is a place for women of all backgrounds to come together and share unique perspectives and advance both themselves and the field of engineering.

To our diverse members and every woman of color in STEM fields, your voice is important. We want to reiterate that we are an inclusive organization and we need you in order to increase representation in all levels of our profession and SWE leadership. 

Message to Our Community
Saturday, May 30, 2020, By News StaffShare
To the Syracuse University Community,

We write to you in the midst of tremendous pain, sorrow, anger and concern. From scenes in Minnesota, Georgia, New York and beyond, we have witnessed horrific images reminding us that the sting of racism and systemic injustice is real.

Each act of discrimination and violence carries with it a significant and sustained impact, especially among those targeted. George Floyd is a visceral and painful reminder of the unique ways many of us—students, faculty, staff and alumni—have experienced discrimination and violence. We are clearly in the midst of troubled times, and while civic and law enforcement authorities bear a particular responsibility, we of Syracuse University are now presented with a collective and crucial opportunity.

We recognize the hate and terror that continues to infect each and every corner of our country and world. To face such truth requires compassion. We also witness the tremendous goodness found within our diverse campus community, and we fully believe in our capacity to create and sustain our common good.

The challenges before us might seem impossible to overcome, and we are all far from perfect. Our response must meet the importance of this moment, to build communities where hate and intolerance are not just condemned and rejected, but eliminated. We are now called upon to embody our values and embrace each other. We must choose—through our words, thoughts and deeds—to emerge as a stronger and more just community.

We grieve for the families who have lost loved ones and for those who are suffering. It is simply not enough to try to imagine what others are going through. We must have the respect and resolve to do something about it. When we engage one another with kindness and compassion, we are working to ensure the dignity and worth of all.

While distanced around the world, we in the Orange Community can bind together and act together, for the sake of our world.

With hope,

Kent Syverud, Chancellor and President
Keith A. Alford, Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer
The Rev. Brian Konkol, Dean of Hendricks Chapel

To the Temple community: 

Recently, we have watched the horrific accounts of the deaths of George Floyd in Minnesota, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. Temple joins those who oppose racial oppression and are actively working toward racial equity. Our university was built on the idea that the world is filled with diamonds and these diamonds can be found anywhere and everywhere regardless of race, ethnicity or socio-economic background. As an educational institution, Temple promotes critical thinking and peaceful and purposeful activism. We join with leaders in the Philadelphia region in condemning violence that harms others and destroys property.

Last week, students, faculty and staff were invited to take part in programming and support services designed to help the Temple community process and constructively respond to this difficult season in our shared history. This programming will continue, led by Temple's Office of Institutional Diversity, Equity, Advocacy and Leadership (IDEAL). We invite you to join with IDEAL for an "Envisioning Racial Justice" webinar to be held Tuesday, June 2. IDEAL regularly shares recommendations of books, articles and other valuable resources, like How To Be An Antiracist by Ibram X. Kendi. Not only is Dr. Kendi a National Book Award-winning and No. 1 New York Times Bestselling Author, he is a Temple Owl, having received his doctorate in African American Studies in 2010. Follow @templediversity for the most up-to-date recommendations and information about additional events.

If you believe you have been the victim of racial discrimination or harassment, please contact the university's EOC office, the focal point of Temple's institutionwide efforts for equal opportunity, equal access and affirmative action. Tuttleman Counseling Services and the Employee Assistance Program also remain available to support you as we face these challenges.

We have every confidence we will navigate this difficult time together.

Richard M. Englert
President

JoAnne A. Epps
Executive Vice President and Provost
Dear TSU Family, Tennessee State University shares the pain of those mourning the loss of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We also share that same anguish, sadness and outrage for the other black men and women across the country who are victims of police brutality because of the color of their skin. Our hearts ache for them and their loved ones, and also for the city that we call home. Nashville has had to endure the seemingly unimaginable this year. The decimation of deadly tornadoes; the physical, mental and economic impact of a pandemic; and now a peaceful rise against injustice that turned violent. While TSU does not condone the violence that erupted during the recent protests in Nashville and nationally, the university sternly and unequivocally opposes injustice and racism. Our institution has a rich history in the civil rights movement, as well as the modern-day movement. Many of our former students helped integrate Nashville's lunch counters, a historic moment in the city's history. Today, our students, from around the country and here in Nashville, are leaders in their communities fighting for change. We must seize this opportunity to continue the dialogue to demand fair and equitable treatment for all Americans, for all Nashvillians. Dear TSU Family, Tennessee State University shares the pain of those mourning the loss of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We also share that same anguish, sadness and outrage for the other black men and women across the country who are victims of police brutality because of the color of their skin. Our hearts ache for them and their loved ones, and also for the city that we call home. Nashville has had to endure the seemingly unimaginable this year. The decimation of deadly tornadoes; the physical, mental and economic impact of a pandemic; and now a peaceful rise against injustice that turned violent. While TSU does not condone the violence that erupted during the recent protests in Nashville and nationally, the university sternly and unequivocally opposes injustice and racism. Our institution has a rich history in the civil rights movement, as well as the modern-day movement. Many of our former students helped integrate Nashville's lunch counters, a historic moment in the city's history. Today, our students, from around the country and here in Nashville, are leaders in their communities fighting for change. We must seize this opportunity to continue the dialogue to demand fair and equitable treatment for all Americans, for all Nashvillians.
A Statement from President Oldham

Published Tuesday Jun 2, 2020
MEDIA RESOURCES
Our nation continues to be marred by injustice, racism, and violence. We observe recent events, that we have seen all too often, that threaten our ability to live with respect for each other.  The unwarranted death of George Floyd should never be forgotten.  I am saddened and struck with the overwhelming belief that we, as a nation, are better than this.

As a university community, we must take a stand and remain committed to our core values of inclusion, respect, kindness, and tolerance toward all.  Our students will be forever shaped by our words, actions, and response to the inexcusable treatment of people of color we have witnessed. 

At Tennessee Tech, we will be a safe place for African American students, faculty and staff. I ask you to hear their voices and pray that all of us will be granted an extra measure of God’s wisdom, grace, tolerance, and patience as we listen to each other and stand beside one another.

RETURN TO NEWS ROOM
The Texas A&M System condemns all racist behaviors, actions, and comments that tear at the moral fabric of our nation. The System is appalled at the deplorable and egregious acts of brutality by some police officers against African Americans. As the nation grieves, the A&M System is also experiencing sorrow and has devoted its platform to stand up against unjust racial disparities.

Based on diversity as a core value of our system, we denounce all forms of violence perpetrated against African Americans. The death of George Floyd, and many others, at the hand of police officers is a despicable and unacceptable outcome. Suffice it to say: IT MUST STOP. All forms of racism, from bias and micro-aggressions to racialized violence, create an undue weight on our faculty, staff, students of color, and administration. As such, there is a direct need to continue to educate and act on our values of inclusion and equity.

The Texas A&M System shall take all necessary steps to ensure that its employees and students are committed to the tenets of human respect and decency. To make a positive impact, we will make a unified commitment to translate our ideals into action for sustainable and proactive change. Equally as important, The Texas A&M System shall remain committed to providing an inclusive environment where all its members can thrive safely.

The A&M System believes all universities under the auspices of the Texas A&M Banner shall speak out against systemic and institutional racism at all levels. Likewise, we urgently call on all Texans and the nation to resist hateful and racist actions and refuse to drink from the bitter cup of divisiveness.

Dr. LaVelle Hendricks, Chair, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Angela Allen, West Texas A&M University
Dr. Carol Bunch Davis, Texas A&M University-Galveston
Larry Davis, Texas A&M University-Central Texas
Dr. Toney Favors, Texas A&M University-Texarkana
Dr. Manuel Flores, Texas A&M University-Kingsville
Elma De Luna-Gonzalez, Prairie View A&M University
Tim Gritten, Texas A&M University-San Antonio
Dr. Peter Haruna, Texas A&M International University
Dr. Lince Tiburcio, Tarleton University
Dr. Sherdeana Owens, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Dr. Christine Stanley, Texas A&M University
Dr. Julia Ballenger, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Joyce Miller, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Minita Ramirez, Texas A&M International University
Carl Greig, Texas A&M University-Texarkana
Dr. Corinne Valadez, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Dr. Jennifer Schroeder, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Brenda Moore, Texas A&M University-Commerce


Dear Texas Tech University family,
We have all been affected and saddened by the tragic and violent events in Minneapolis,
Minnesota. The events have brought to mind difficult and complex questions about racism
and justice. For some of our fellow students, faculty, and employees, what happened to
George Floyd feels like it could happen to them too.
That requires all of us to have an extra measure of compassion and understanding as we
move forward. Take time to listen to one another, to have the hard conversations and
uncomfortable exchanges. It is precisely those dialogues that strengthen the sense of
community that is an essential part of our university.
I want to reaffirm Texas Tech's unwavering commitment to a welcoming environment for all.
Many ethnicities are proudly represented on this campus, and our students are drawn from all
50 states and more than one hundred countries. That is a great strength, but it also means that
all of us—the administration, faculty, employees, and students alike—must treat every
person in this community with the respect and compassion they deserve. That is our bedrock
standard, and no matter our background, our bond as Red Raiders unifies us in a common
cause and in our responsibility to one another.
This past spring, the University held a series of dialogues about race relations on campus,
and that work has never felt more urgent. We intend to continue these efforts in the year
ahead and I also want to call attention to the many resources that are here for students,
faculty, staff, and administrators in the meantime. We have first-rate health and counseling
services to support you and additional educational resources and programs are provided
through the Division of Diversity, Equity & Inclusion, and the Center for Campus Life. We
will work with colleagues across the Texas Tech University System, the Athletics
Department, the Texas Tech Police Department, as well as with our elected officials and
civic leaders here in Lubbock, to ensure your safety and well-being.
We are all Red Raiders, and we are all dedicated to a University that celebrates diversity and
draws strength from it. Following the closures of this spring, we aim to return to campus as
unified as ever. That's the Texas Tech way. And it reflects our most deeply held values of
respect, inclusion, compassion, and mutual concern.
We look forward to being able to resume our campus life, and I wish all of you the best in the
weeks and months to come.
Sincerely,
Lawrence Schovanec
President
Texas Tech University


TTIC's Mission Statement says: "TTIC is committed to the values of human freedom, dignity, prosperity, and diversity." President Turk confirmed in an internal mail to the TTIC community on Tuesday that the Institute is firmly committed to those values, and supports those demanding an end to intolerance, discrimination, marginalization, and bigotry. Racism and discrimination have devastating effects on society. Silence plays a key role in upholding and supporting narratives that contribute to systems of oppression and injustice.

The recent killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery, along with too many others, have caused profound new grief and adversely affect our lives and the lives of those we care about in significant ways. We must individually and collectively reflect on the lives lost unnecessarily, and the systemic problems and challenges we all face as a society. The unnecessary race-based killings and violence must end.
Community Message on Racial Injustice
Sunday, May, 31st, 2020 President's Desk Speeches and Messages

May 31, 2020

Dear members of the Tufts University community,

This spring has been a difficult one for our entire community, as all of our lives have taken turns that were inconceivable just months ago. But it is important to recognize that we have not all been challenged in the same ways. The coronavirus pandemic, with its disproportionate impact on the health and economic status of communities of color, has revealed, once again, the deep disparities that continue to exist in our nation. And the recent acts of violence against Black people demonstrate, once again, the racism and injustice that persist in our society.

I recognize that I have the privilege of being able to go for a jog or put on a mask without fearing that my skin color will make me a target. Not all members of our society—and our Tufts community—enjoy such privilege. To our Black students, faculty, staff and alumni, please know that I stand with you in demanding these injustices stop.

As a community, we want to come together, share our pain, and find a way to be a part of the solution. But we are currently separated around the world. I hope we can use our distance as a strength, rather than a barrier. Let’s work to improve the communities in which we find ourselves today and hope that by our actions, we can begin to knit this nation together.

I hope you will stay safe and support one another during these difficult times.

Best wishes,

Tony Monaco

A MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT LILY D. McNAIR "Dear Students, Alumni, Colleagues and Friends:


This past week, we have all experienced a range of emotions after viewing the horrific and senseless murder of George Floyd at the hands of law enforcement officials. As a mother, wife and president of Tuskegee University with more than 2,800 students – of which 35% are male – I am concerned about your safety and futures. While Black males have been the most obvious targets of police brutality and mistreatment, I am equally distressed about the fate of Black women who have increasingly suffered from similar miscarriages of justice.


I have a particularly heightened sense of concern for your safety and general well-being during these trying times. After watching the weekend protests occurring in major cities in the country, my heart sank again as I saw the video of two students from our sister institutions of Morehouse College and Spelman College who were forcibly removed from their vehicle and tasered by Atlanta police without obvious provocation. The death of George Floyd and these subsequent protests have exposed the troubling state of our country on many fronts – including racial disparities, social injustices, and economic inequalities that disproportionately affect the poor and people of color. Although many of you may choose to participate in these protests, I ask that you be mindful of the notable cause of peaceful protests. 


You are an important part of my family, so I ask that you stay safe. We will be working with student leaders and others over the coming days and weeks to engage in action-oriented solutions focused on anti-racism, peace, equality, and social justice reform. Join the Division of Student Affairs on Thursday, June 4, at 8:00 p.m. central time on Zoom for ""Know Peace, Know Justice: A Safety and Mental Health Discussion."" The Zoom link will be sent separately and posted on social media.


Stay safe. Stay focused. Know that we will get through this together.


Sincerely,
 
Lily D. McNair, Ph.D.
President"

Minneapolis, Louisville, Atlanta
Published May 30, 2020

Dear university community,

At the University at Buffalo, we believe that intolerance, hatred and institutional racism have no place in our community or our nation. That is precisely why our university—in principle and in practice—has deliberately cultivated a diverse, inclusive community grounded in respect for each other’s humanity.
 
As a university community, we are deeply saddened by the lives senselessly taken in Minneapolis, Atlanta and Louisville. As we watch neighborhoods and cities consumed by destruction and chaos, we mourn peacefully but not passively.
 
Instead, with unwavering compassion, let us lift our voices together and, as one, pledge that all people—regardless of race or gender—be afforded a life of liberty, equality, opportunity and dignity.

Sincerely,
 
Satish K. Tripathi
President


Important Message from UAB Leaders
by Tyler Greer
June 01, 2020 Print Email
UAB Community,

Integrity, respect, accountability, diversity and inclusiveness are shared values of our institution and are at the core of what it means to be a UAB Blazer. Everybody counts every day. The students, faculty and staff who comprise our richly diverse and inclusive campus — and take pride in living these values — are hurting, along with our community and country.

The senseless murder of George Floyd — fueled by racism and hate — is tragic, unacceptable and not isolated. The recent abhorrent killings of Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery show a disturbing pattern and are proof that an intentional focus on the values we espouse as members of the UAB community are needed now. These incidents have continued to surface as we navigate the COVID-19 pandemic, which has highlighted the systemic health disparities in African American and Latinx communities consistently addressed by leadership in our School of Medicine, as well as uneven enforcement of social distancing executive orders and anti-Asian bias. 

Nothing we can say can heal the deep pain and fear in our community. But we can recognize injustice and actively and purposefully live for integrity, respect, accountability, diversity and inclusiveness every day. Do not let your concern subside. Be a difference for positive change.

We are proud of and affirm our student government association's condemnation of these tragedies and its message encouraging fellow students to take actions beyond words with "donations, signing petitions, safely attending protests, and exercising your civic duties."

There are many opportunities to get involved. We encourage all of our students, faculty and staff to learn more about and seek the resources and programming offered by UAB's Student Multicultural and Diversity Programs and Office of Diversity Equity and Inclusion. 

Self-care is important in times like these. If you need them, utilize the free counseling services UAB offers through Student Counseling Servicesand the Employee Assistance Counseling Center.

Please take care of yourself and each other.

Sincerely,

Ray L. Watts, President

Pam Benoit, Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost

Allen Bolton, Senior Vice President for Finance and Administration

Selwyn Vickers, Senior Vice President for Medicine and Dean, School of Medicine

Jim Bakken, Interim Chief Communications Officer

Shannon Blanton, Dean, Honors College

Tom Brannan, Vice President for Advancement

Jennifer Breland, President, Staff Council

Chris Brown, Vice President for Research

Andrew Butler, Dean, School of Health Professions

Curt Carver, Vice President for Information Technology/Chief Information Officer

Autumn Cypres, Dean, School of Education

Paulette Dilworth, Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Paul Erwin, Dean, School of Public Health

Will Ferniany, CEO, UAB Health System

Kasia Gonnerman, Dean, Libraries

Doreen Harper, Dean, School of Nursing

Ria Hearld, Chair, Faculty Senate

Mark Ingram, Director of Athletics

Eric Jack, Dean, School of Business

Alesia Jones, Chief Human Resources Officer

John Jones, Vice President for Student Affairs 

Lori McMahon, Dean, Graduate School

Kelly Nichols, Dean, School of Optometry

Kathy Nugent, Executive Director, Harbert Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship

Rosie O'Beirne, Interim Associate Vice President for Digital Strategy and Marketing

Robert Palazzo, Dean, College of Arts and Sciences

Russell Taichman, Dean, School of Dentistry

Tim Wick, Interim Dean, School of Engineering 

UA Little Rock Stands with Students, Faculty, and Staff
JUNE 2, 2020

Trojan Family,

This is a difficult time for our country as we struggle with the harmful effects of racism. We grieve with the families of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and so many others. I want you to know that UA Little Rock stands against racism and hate and stands with those who support social justice and equality.

As an institution, we are not immune to issues of inequity and intolerance. Particularly with regard to issues of race and ethnicity, we have not done enough. While we still have much room for improvement, we are committed to doing the work that is required of us to ensure we provide members of our campus community with the space and support to operate authentically in their identity, free from harassment and disrespect.

I know there are members of our campus community, especially those who identify as African American, who are in great pain at this time as you struggle to process this latest tragedy, while navigating the enduring systems of discrimination that you face in your day-to-day life. We want you to know that you have a place at UA Little Rock, and it is important that we continue to work together to ensure the safety and well-being of every member of our campus community. We are here for you and we care for you. You matter.

I am committed to making sure that every member of our campus community is valued, respected, and celebrated–we are stronger together.

Christina S. Drale
Chancellor


Together against Racism and Injustice
June 1, 2020

Dear UBC community:

Recent anti-Black and anti-Asian violence in communities across North America has focused our attention on the deeply rooted racism in Canada and globally.  UBC itself is not immune to racism and injustice.

As a university, we need to make it crystal clear that racism and bias have no place in our community and that we have zero tolerance for it.

On behalf of the University, I condemn and denounce all incidents of anti-Black and anti-Asian racism and the continued racism and oppression that is directed at Indigenous communities. We must work together to dismantle the tools of oppression and white supremacy that remain prevalent and entrenched in our everyday systems.  It is my hope that at least here at UBC, we can work to model a different kind of community – one where we embrace difference and work to build each other up while enacting values of dignity, mutual respect, and justice.

Deeply connected to the wider region, and benefiting from the privilege of being on unceded land, UBC must be responsive to the needs of our wider community and committed to advancing the understanding of equity, diversity, and inclusion. As a public sector institution, we have an obligation and commitment towards the public good; and as a place of learning and engagement, we are uniquely positioned to generate and mobilize knowledge that can transform systems of oppression and support emerging leaders that can help shape not only our campus, but workplaces and communities beyond our campuses. As such we will be organizing a series of public engagements focused on anti-racism.

As the President of UBC, I reaffirm our institutional commitment to inclusion and call for the acceleration and intensification of efforts to build a more inclusive campus community.  Over the coming weeks, I will

Ensure adequate resources to implement the goals and actions of the Inclusion Action Plan.
Meet with the Black Caucus and the Asian Canadian Community Engagement Group.
Support the diversification of the professoriate through the allocation of President’s Excellence Chairs to Black and Indigenous faculty members.
Support identity-based spaces and organizations and ensure that they continue to receive the funding they need.
Fulfill commitments within the Inclusion Action Plan for the recruitment, retention and support of Black students, staff, and faculty.
Ensure that all our public safety officers and other authority figures are adequately trained to eliminate any unconscious or implicit bias.
Endeavour to diversify our community at every level through defined programs.
As recommended by the External review of the Equity & Inclusion Office, establish a dotted line reporting relationship to the Associate Vice President, Equity & Inclusion.
I will also be working closely with members of our administration, the Associate Vice President, Equity & Inclusion, and relevant committees and groups to assess and look at ways that we can enhance our efforts to build a more inclusive campus. We will host a  virtual town hall to elevate voices that are traditionally silenced in our institution and to monitor progress.

At UBC, diversity is our strength – inclusion of different perspectives and experiences is critical to the wellbeing of our community and the individual and collective pursuit of excellence. We can play a role against hatred, oppression, violence and injustice and find a way to support and elevate those who have been traditionally, systemically, and historically marginalized.

I encourage you to think about the role you can play in fighting racism and with that I urge you to read this post on solidarity and anti-racist action from our colleagues at the Equity & Inclusion Office.

If you are in need of support with respect to your wellbeing, please contact UBC Counselling Services or EFAP, explore some ways for self-care, and if you feel that you have faced discrimination while working or studying at UBC, please contact our human rights team. This post on sustainable self-care may also be useful.

On a personal note, I say to racialized students and colleagues at UBC: this is not the first time in history that you have experienced heightened stigmatization and racism. You are strong and resilient and will thrive in the face of this as you have done throughout history. Please don’t let racism cloud your spirit. Go and be the brilliant minds and compassionate hearts that you are, and continue to shine at UBC. You belong here.

If you think there is more UBC can do, I want to hear from you at presidents.office@ubc.ca.

Santa J. Ono
President and Vice-Chancellor

Letter to the UBC Community

A message from campus leaders: Standing together
MAY 29, 2020


EmailPrint
Chancellor Carol Christ and Oscar Dubón, Jr., vice chancellor for equity and inclusion, sent the following message to the campus community on Friday:

While we all profoundly feel the suffering and loss related to COVID-19—suffering and loss visited disproportionately on those who are Black, indigenous, people of color, and poor—we are appalled by the racist killings of recent weeks. We write to express our outrage; we stand in steadfast solidarity with our Black community; and we offer heartfelt condolences to the loved ones of the victims of the racially-motivated violence that is taking place in various communities across America. Unchecked violence at the hands of police and civilians requires our – and all of society's – urgent attention.

As a campus community, we stand with the family of Ahmaud Arbery, who was murdered while jogging in Georgia by two white men. We stand with Christian Cooper, who was the victim of a woman's attempt to use the police as a weapon against him while he pursued his passion for birdwatching in New York's Central Park. We stand with the loved ones of Breonna Taylor, an essential worker during this pandemic who was killed in her home by police. We stand against the senseless killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis by a police officer who knelt on his neck, while three others watched and assisted, as Mr. Floyd choked out the same final words of another slain Black man, Eric Garner: "I can't breathe."

Let us say their names, acknowledge their humanity, and commit to doing what we can to build a more just society.

Let us also acknowledge that while these names and incidents made their way into the national news and discourse, they are not by any means isolated, nor is the racism that underlies them.

According to Rutgers University Sociologist Frank Edwards, one out of every 1,000 Black men in America will be killed by a police officer. This makes them two and half times more likely than white men to die during encounters with officers.

Less noticed by the mainstream media but equally important to elevate are Black women, gender non-conforming and trans people who have been murdered in recent weeks and months.

We must call out and hold accountable our broken structures, build bridges that will lead to mutual understanding and respect across differences, and work to create a future in which we can all thrive, especially in these most challenging times. This work must happen across the nation – and it must happen on a local level as well.

We acknowledge the grief, anger, sadness, helplessness, and outrage that these killings create in our community. Let us channel those feelings toward a commitment to each others' wellness. If you would like support, please contact UC Berkeley Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). Counselors are available for phone and video counseling appointments. There are also new online self-help tools. Visit the CAPS website, call Counseling and Psychological Services at (510) 642-9494, or, when the Tang Center is closed, call the after-hours counseling line (855) 817-5667. CAPS employs mental health professionals trained to provide support to individuals from a wide array of identities, including traditionally marginalized or disenfranchised groups.

In addition, Be Well at Work – Employee Assistance provides free confidential counseling and referrals for our faculty, staff, visiting scholars, and postdocs. To schedule an appointment with an Employee Assistance counselor, please contact (510) 643-7754 or email employeeassistance@berkeley.edu.

Finally, please be aware of the following resources:

Student Organizations: Our campus has numerous and diverse student organizations that students may wish to get involved in. You can explore at callink.berkeley.edu.
Centers for Educational Justice & Community Engagement: These centers provide space, programs, and services for Berkeley's diverse student communities. Learn more at ejce.berkeley.edu/mcc or (510) 642-6528.
Reporting: For information and support on reporting hate crimes or hate-motivated acts, visit stophate.berkeley.edu.
As a campus community, we must uphold a standard of care and respect in both words and actions that lives up to our values and principles of community. This is a time for greater self-examination of society's institutions and structures—including our university—and a bold commitment to healthier national and campus cultures. In this way, we honor lives lost or forever changed through acts of hate and violence by bringing about change for justice and belonging.
To the UC Davis Community:

"I can't breathe." These were the last words uttered by Eric Garner as he was being murdered on Staten Island in 2014.

"I can't breathe."These were among the last words spoken by George Floyd as he suffered the same fate under hauntingly similar circumstances in Minneapolis on Monday evening.

In 2014, I tried to explain the Garner incident to my daughters. Yesterday, I tried to explain the Floyd incident to myself. In both cases, I fell short. Murder captured on video defies explanation.

Needless to say, these tragedies hit my family and me hard. I know it's touched a deep nerve with many of you as well. You have reached out to express your support, concern, sadness and anger, and I appreciate it. To be honest, it's been difficult for me to know how to address this because it is so personal.

I lived in Georgia for nearly 30 years, where Ahmaud Arbery was hunted and killed. George Floyd could have been any African American man, including me. Beyond the constant barrage of fear of the negative consequences of birding while black, shopping while black, cooking out while black, exercising while black — it is just exhausting. And I'm tired.

I can't claim to speak for all African Americans or all people of color. And to ask me or others like me to do so is a burden others don't have to carry. So I have thought a lot about how America got here, so long ago, and why we haven't made as much progress as we often claim.

The events of this week also cause me to believe even more strongly, if that's possible, in building an inclusive environment that recognizes and respects people of all backgrounds and experiences. I remain committed to that and hope you will do what you can to eliminate racism, sexism, and other negative influences on our progression as a nation.

Perhaps higher education can be that positive influence on lives beyond an education. Perhaps here we can create a way forward. Perhaps here we can breathe.

Sincerely,

Gary S. May
Chancellor

Category
Messages and Announcements
Tags
Chancellor's Messages
Offices of the Chancellor and Provost
Fifth Floor, Mrak Hall
University of California, Davis
One Shields Avenue
Davis, CA 95616

(530) 752-2065

Categories
Messages and Announcements
Speeches
Related Articles
Kayton Carter, Renetta Garrison Tull and Chancellor May stand together in a moment of silence. 
Checking In With Chancellor May: Beyond the Moment
June 05, 2020
Provost Hexter standing outside looking at camera
A Message to Our Students as We Near the Close of Spring 2020
June 04, 2020
Chancellor May sitting at desk writing a letter
Checking In With Chancellor May: A Way Forward
May 29, 2020
Chancellor Gary May seriously and thoughtfully looking to the side
Checking In With Chancellor May: Reflection
May 22, 2020
Chancellor May sitting at desk writing a letter
Coronavirus Update for Incoming Fall 2020 Students
May 21, 2020

In Support of the African American Community
May 31, 2020
Dear UCI Community:

We watched with shock and horror the video of a white policeman callously, even casually, kneeling on the neck of an unarmed and unresisting black man until that man was dead, while other policemen stood by and watched.  This brutal and racist act was like something out of Mississippi during Jim Crow, out of the past we don't acknowledge enough, but it wasn't.  It is our reality, in the here and now, a reality that reflects the harsh, brutal, terrible, ongoing legacy of America's original sin.

We empathize with the pain, sadness, and anger that many Black students, employees, and alumni understandably are feeling.  Please reach out to any of us if we can help you during this extraordinary time.

The unrest that is roiling our country, from coast to coast, is a profoundly distressing statement of the crisis of our society.  At the core of this crisis is the reality of anti-Black racism in the United States.  The death of George Floyd was not isolated.  Breonna Taylor, a first responder, died in a hail of gunfire in her Louisville home in March.  Tony McDade, a Black trans-masculine person, was shot and killed by Tallahassee police.  Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia was hunted down and murdered by vigilantes.  His story is all too familiar.  Unarmed, Trayvon Martin was killed by George Zimmerman in 2012.  Their crime: jogging and walking while Black.  This sickening and outrageous roll call goes on and on.

The response to these and other unjustified deaths reflects a profound and justified sense of grievance and frustration with policing and our justice system.  The unrest that we are witnessing is no less about the persistence of systematic oppression and exclusion in educational opportunity, participation in the economy, access to health care, and all areas of social life essential to social justice and human well being.   

As Vice Chancellor Haynes noted in his message last Thursday, the experience of anti-Blackness belies the notion that "We are all in this together." 

But if we are to survive, as a nation, as a society, we must be in this together.  

Here at UCI, an institution devoted to the betterment of the world, our Inclusive Excellence Action Plan focuses on promoting a campus culture defined by community, thriving, and wellness.  That is not enough.  We can and must do more. All of us, collectively, must confront the distinctive, fundamental reality of anti-Blackness. We must also look forward and explore what we can do—in our practices, our teaching, our research, our community engagement, our interpersonal interactions—to mitigate the pervasive and systemic injustices and brutalities of anti-Blackness.

To this end, Vice Chancellor Haynes will develop and launch by fall 2020 a wide-ranging initiative.  With input from campus stakeholders and community, this initiative will ensure that our campus community is educated about anti-Blackness, takes steps to dismantle anti-Black sentiment, enhances scholarly expertise and research, promotes the intellectual and cultural capital of Black communities, transforms the professoriate and knowledge workforce of the future, and identifies other ways we can rise to the serious challenges confronting all of us.   

We stand in unity with the African-American community to deepen everyone's understanding so that we make this world a better place, for today and for future generations.  To do this work we must be in this together.

Let there be light for us all,

Chancellor Howard Gillman
Interim Provost Hal Stern
Vice Chancellor, Student Affairs Willie Banks
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Douglas Haynes
UCI Chief of Police Liz Griffin
The Pain Behind the Protests
Campus Update
To the Campus Community:

Across the country, people are horrified by the recent killings of three African Americans: Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and George Floyd. We share that outrage. And these are only a few of the most recent deaths to cause particular anguish amongst those who for too long have endured cruelty after cruelty, indignity after indignity.

What stood out about the killing of George Floyd — more than its senselessness, more than its brutality – was its casualness. What was so chilling was the relaxed demeanor of a police officer — sworn to protect and to serve — his hands calmly in his pockets, kneeling on the neck of a fellow human being, indifferent to his cries of pain and the fear for his life. Equally harrowing was his three fellow officers who stood there and did not recognize the need to intervene in a life or death situation. All these behaviors reflected the utter dehumanization of Black life.

We must never let that indifference to human suffering become our own. We must never deaden our hearts to the pain of others. Our fundamental values demand that we care.

At UCLA, we believe deeply that equity, respect and justice are central to the character of our institution, to the health of our democracy and to the well-being of our world. Still, we recognize that UCLA also can and must do better. As campus leaders, we recommit ourselves to ensuring that our policies and actions value the lives, safety and dignity of every Bruin.

We have begun the process of coordinating virtual reflection spaces for departments and units, where we can come together to try and process what has happened. With assistance from the Office for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion and the university’s Equity Advisors, we are also trying to share ways we can honestly and humbly acknowledge the pain and search for solutions. This includes working with student government leaders to understand and address the needs of our students. Our efforts will be updated on the Resources for Racial Trauma web page as we push forward to deeper understanding and genuine change.

We conclude by stating unequivocally that Black lives DO matter. They matter at UCLA. They matter in Minnesota. They matter everywhere.

In solidarity,
Gene D. Block
Chancellor
Emily A. Carter
Executive Vice Chancellor and
Provost
Michael Meranze
Chair, Academic Senate
Michael J. Beck
Administrative Vice Chancellor
Gregg Goldman
Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer
Monroe Gorden, Jr.
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Jerry Kang
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity
and Inclusion
Michael S. Levine
Vice Chancellor for Academic Personnel
John Mazziotta
Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences
CEO, UCLA Health

Louise C. Nelson
Vice Chancellor for Legal Affairs
Mary Osako
Vice Chancellor for Strategic Communications

Rhea Turteltaub
Vice Chancellor for External Affairs
Roger Wakimoto
Vice Chancellor for Research
Yolanda J. Gorman
Senior Advisor to the Chancellor and Chief of Staff

Dan Guerrero
The Alice and Nahum Lainer Family Director of Athletics
Antonio E. Bernardo
Dean, Anderson School of
Management
Ronald S. Brookmeyer
Dean, Fielding School of Public Health
Eric Bullard
Dean, Continuing Education and UCLA Extension

Miguel A. García-Garibay
Dean, Division of Physical Sciences
Robin L. Garrell
Vice Provost, Graduate Education
Dean, Graduate Division

Darnell M. Hunt
Dean, Division of Social Sciences
Brian Kite
Interim Dean, School of Theater, Film and Television

Paul H. Krebsbach
Dean, School of Dentistry
Kelsey Martin
Dean, David Geffen School of Medicine
Jennifer L. Mnookin
Dean, School of Law
Jayathi Y. Murthy
Dean, Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science

Linda Sarna
Dean, School of Nursing
Gary M. Segura
Dean, Luskin School of Public Affairs
David Schaberg
Dean, Division of Humanities
Victoria Sork
Dean, Division of Life Sciences

Brett Steele
Dean, School of the Arts and Architecture
Eileen Strempel
Dean, The Herb Alpert School of
Music
Marcelo Suárez-Orozco
Dean, Graduate School of Education & Information Studies

Pat Turner
Senior Dean, College
Dean and Vice Provost, Undergraduate Education

Tony Lee
Chief of UCLA Police Department
Naomi Riley
President, Undergraduate Students Association
Jean Paul Santos
President, Graduate Students Association
 
UC Riverside Mourns the Death of George Floyd
KIM A. WILCOX
Chancellor
May 29, 2020
Dear Campus Community,

In March and early April, elected leaders held daily press conferences in which they reported the number of ventilators they had secured. In hospitals and labs, physicians, scientists, and device manufacturers looked for new ways to help patients suffering from COVID-19 breathe. Both federal and state entities went to great expense to ensure that those who needed it had air.

Then, this week, videos showed a police officer with his knee pushing into the neck of an African American man named George Floyd, while two others held his legs as he took his last breath. Before he died, Floyd pleaded, "I can't breathe," to the men who took his life. 

There is no denying that air is sought for some and stolen from others. 

The death of George Floyd follows the death of Ahmaud Arbery, an unarmed African American man chased down and shot by white men while jogging near his home in Georgia. 

We represent an institution committed to diversity, equity, and inclusion. To those of you who too well understand the fear of being arrested, assaulted or killed because of the color of your skin – from ongoing Anti-Black racism to COVID-19 Anti-Asian upsurges, we want you to know we are with you and grateful that you are a part of our community. We will continue to foster an environment that not only values equality but fights inequity where we see it.

Our country has buried too many in recent months. We mourn all of these lost lives but today grieve most deeply a loss that didn't have to be and reaffirm our commitment to work toward a better tomorrow. 
Statement on George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery
Today our hearts are burdened, our minds are searching, and our spirits are processing a mix of disbelief, anger and sadness. The news of George Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on Monday night and the disturbing video of his final moments has shocked the world. Taken in context with the recent killings of Breonna Taylor (by police in her own home) and Ahmaud Arbery (by neighbors while jogging), our black community members, in particular, are outraged, traumatized, fearful and in profound pain.

Grief and concern in their purest forms have been made even more poignant during this time of great uncertainty due to the global public health crisis. The coronavirus pandemic has magnified the long history of racism in our country, ongoing inequity, and the status quo of the dehumanization of our fellow Black Americans.

How do we react? What do we do? Where do we start?
We begin by extending our sincere, heartfelt sympathies to the loved ones of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We join in mourning their unspeakably tragic and untimely deaths. We stand in solidarity with our black family, friends and neighbors in their time of need and help them shoulder their everyday lives so that they have the necessary time to mourn and process the deeper meanings of these losses. And most importantly, no matter how painful, difficult or uncomfortable, we must review these events with full transparency and recognize there are systemic problems in our society that desperately need our attention, time and energy to remedy.

We must recognize the violation of human rights and the devastating effects that systemic racism, oppression and violence have on the safety, security and health of communities of color. We cannot let these acts be normalized or allow ourselves to become numb to them. The University of California San Diego unequivocally condemns the disproportionate use of excessive force by some police in communities of color.

We also denounce vigilante acts that terrorize members of the community based upon race, ethnicity, country of origin, religion, disability, gender, gender identity, or sexual orientation. We as a community must not and will not tolerate acts of hate, bias or violence. We are committed to doing what can be done within our institution to make sure everyone feels that they belong and that they matter. This should be our commitment to ourselves and to each other.

Where do we go from here?
In the coming weeks, our Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion has planned community conversations to provide spaces for healing and identifying ways to be agents of change in this moment. Details are forthcoming and will be communicated via campus notice.

We know that statements such as these do not resolve the intractable issues we face as a country. We know it does not even begin to heal the hurt and trauma caused by structural and systemic racism and discrimination. Collectively, let us continue to work together for a more just, equitable and humane society in our service, activism, pedagogy, and community and collaborative efforts.

Pradeep K. Khosla
Chancellor

Elizabeth H. Simmons
Executive Vice Chancellor

Maripat Corr
Chair, San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

Steven Constable
Vice Chair, San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

David A. Brenner
Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences

Margaret S. Leinen
Vice Chancellor for Marine Sciences

Sandra A. Brown
Vice Chancellor for Research

Gary C. Matthews
Vice Chancellor for Resource Management and Planning

Pierre Ouillet
Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer

Becky R. Petitt
Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion

Alysson Satterlund
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Judy Bruner
Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer

Anne L. Buckley
Chief Communications and Marketing Officer

Vince Kellen
Chief Information Officer

Patty Maysent
Chief Executive Officer for UC San Diego Health

Daniel W. Park
Chief Campus Counsel

Nancy Resnick
Chief Human Resource Officer

David S. Rose
Chief of Police

Michael Trigilio
Chair of the Committee on Diversity and Equity
San Diego Divisional Academic Senate

SHARE
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Email
Print


Statement on George Floyd
To: UC Santa Cruz Community

From: Chancellor Cynthia Larive

May 29, 2020

SHARE THIS STORY:TwitterFacebookLinkedInReddit
Dear Campus Community,

I write today to share our pain, sadness, and anger for the murder of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota. In the midst of this unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic, the all too common violence and threat of violence perpetrated against Black people and other communities of color in our country escalates. George Floyd’s death is part of an appalling history of racist harassment, assault, and murder that stretches back far too long in the life of our nation. There are too many victims whose experiences never made headlines and whose names will never become public. I know that grief weighs heavily on many members of our community. I struggle with my own sense of heartbreak.

Our university struggles with and works within the same context of white supremacist systems, structures, and conditions that make life more dangerous and precarious for people of color. Universities, like our country, have taken too long to translate our ideals into action or sustainable change. Transforming the university takes work, and we are still engaged in that work. The pace of change is frustratingly slow and the instruments of change are imperfect. The difficulties of this past year for our community highlight how far we have to go. 

I encourage you to reach out to campus services for support. In addition to support services offered by staff in our colleges and resource centers, Counseling and Psychological Services provides assistance for students. For employees, the Employee Assistance Program can provide counseling and support.

Sincerely,

Cindy

Our community and events in Minneapolis and Chicago
 
To: Members of the University Community
From: Ka Yee C. Lee, Provost
Subject: Our community and events in Minneapolis and Chicago
Date: May 30, 2020
 
Our nation is confronting painful issues in the wake of the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis and a number of other racially motivated incidents. These recent examples represent a small fraction of the bias and violence that occurs across the U.S. and around the world each day. The deep alarm expressed by people throughout the country, including in our home of Chicago, reflects many decades of grief and anguish over the intractable scourge of racism against minority communities, particularly African Americans.
 
I know that many of you are feeling sadness, pain, and anger over these recent events. In these already difficult times, this is an occasion for solidarity and for a strengthened commitment to care for each other and work to improve our community, our city and, our nation. Even though most of us are separated by distance as this quarter comes to a close, our shared values bind us together to seek truth, value diversity, and strive for justice.
 
Diversity and inclusion are core values of our institution. We value every member of our campus community, and each of us should show respect for one another. The vitality of the South Side is fundamentally linked with that of the University, and we esteem the deep relationships and partnerships that the residents of the South Side and members of the University community have built together. Fostering a sense of trust, inclusion, belonging and safety for our faculty, other academic appointees, staff, and students is always a priority, and especially so during this time. In the coming days, there will be more information about opportunities for our community to come together in dialogue about these issues.
 
We also encourage you to access the many valuable University resources that may be helpful to you right now:
 
The Center for Identity + Inclusion engages students and members of our University community from all backgrounds to ensure personal, academic, and professional growth, and success.
The Center for the Study of Race, Politics, and Culture offers a wide array of programming, including a Zoom series focused on the racial disparities of COVID-19.
The Pozen Center for Human Rights offers regular programming about global human rights.
Spiritual Life serves as a destination for religious and spiritual needs.
UChicago Student Wellness offers counseling services and other support for students impacted by these and other events.
The Urban Health Initiative runs inclusive community grants and organizes a variety of community programs and services.
The Diversity & Inclusion website features a listing of related events happening across campus.
 
Thank you for the continuing work of people across our University to build a strong, supportive, and inclusive community.
 
 
Keywords: 
Announcements
Diversity and Inclusion
It is hard not to be haunted by the brutal reality that Dr. King’s words are needed as much in 2020 as they were in 1967. America has failed to hear the profound ways we are, repeatedly, failing each other. And not only in small, I-will-do-better-next-time ways. But in the biggest way imaginable—by failing to fight for the basic humanity of our neighbor. Our hearts ache for the family and friends of George Floyd, as they continue to do so for the loved ones of Samuel DuBose. We must agree destruction of our neighborhoods is not the answer. Let us instead heed the clarion call from President Obama to "work together to create a ‘new normal’ in which the legacy of bigotry and unequal treatment no longer infects our institutions or our hearts."
From the Chancellor - Standing against hate and violence
May 29, 2020

As I see national news stories about the death of George Floyd and other recent acts of racism, I reflect on the conversations I had earlier this year with our students about these very issues. 

Even though a global pandemic is keeping us apart from each other, I share in your pain, anger and sadness. When we see acts of racism, it affects us deeply and takes a physical, mental and emotional toll. We must reach out and support each other as we process what has happened. For me, I will not lose hope. I take heart in how our students have engaged with us over the last academic year. We had honest conversations in a genuine effort to enhance campus climate together and build a more welcoming, safe and inclusive community for all.

These intolerable injustices, whether they happen in Minnesota, New York or here in Colorado, strike at the core of everything we believe. Let me be clear: I am committed to diversity and inclusion of everyone on our campus. 

We stand in solidarity with all members of our campus community, including our police department and the city of Boulder in encouraging and supporting peaceful demonstrations.

As a campus community, it is incumbent on us to encourage civil discourse that lifts us all from this darkness. Universities can be, and must be, at the heart of social change. As a campus, we continuously work to cultivate a diverse, inclusive and welcoming community. We best illustrate this through our moral actions when we see injustice, close to home or far away.

Please take care of yourselves, each other and use our campus support resources, which continue to be available during these difficult times. 
 

Phil DiStefano,
CU Boulder Chancellor
Dear UConn Community,

Recent events have called national attention yet again to the destructive power of prejudice and racism. The death of George Floyd in police custody in Minneapolis serves as our most recent example. We are disgusted by the images we have seen capturing the unconscionable acts that caused his death. Demonstrations across the country make clear that communities are hurting and frustrated by repeated acts of violence against their neighbors, friends, and families. These events have saddened and angered so many on a deeply personal level, with the burden of fear for one's own and their family's safety placed squarely upon African-Americans.

Unfortunately, this is just one of many examples of the pain caused by systemic injustices that are present every day. Take, for example, the disproportionate rates of death by COVID-19 among African-American, Latinx, and Indigenous peoples, or the discriminatory acts targeting individuals of Asian descent and foreign nationals from many countries in this pandemic. This adds to the already vulnerable experience of so many in our community, including but not limited to DACA students who are unsure about their future; individuals with disabilities who can feel invisible; LGBTQ+ individuals experiencing verbal and physical acts of violence; individuals subjected to intolerance based on their religious identity and beliefs; and people of color who are forced to constantly question if they can engage safely in routine activities like jogging or bird watching.

These events underscore the critical importance of our infusing diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in everything we do every single day. Not with mantra and platitudes, but with clearly articulated and tangible action that is supported by the University with budget and action. As scholars, educators, and colleagues, we are uniquely positioned to reflect, learn, and act.

We are committed to this work as UConn moves forward from some of its own recent struggles. We have a crucial new partner in these efforts with the recent hire of Dr. Frank Tuitt as our new Vice President and Chief Diversity Officer. We are all eager to work with him to sustain a culture that understands, respects, and appreciates differences, but also one that readily acknowledges our shortcomings and holds ourselves accountable for measurable progress at all times.

As he looks ahead to this new role, Frank shared the following: "I strongly believe that institutions like UConn should be at the center of creating spaces for students, faculty, and staff to imagine and invent ways to build more inclusive, affirming, and equitable institutions, organizations, and communities, and I look forward to doing my part to contribute to that collective effort."

We have communicated closely with him over the past several days, and we all will benefit from his leadership and expertise.

We have the opportunity to engage our entire community in the work that is needed, building upon continued advocacy and efforts of concerned faculty, staff, and administrators at UConn in collaboration with our cultural centers and our amazing undergraduate and graduate students who are willing to speak clearly and directly about their experiences. Change cannot be carried out by one person or one office alone. Too often the labor of this work is disproportionately undertaken by our most vulnerable, impacting their career progression, as well as their mental health and overall satisfaction with their work experience. This is a time when we can build momentum to share the responsibility across our entire community at our Storrs, UConn Health, Avery Point, Hartford, Stamford, Waterbury, and law school campuses.

We also have been extremely fortunate to benefit from the stewardship of Interim Chief Diversity Officer Dana Wilder. Building on strengths of the Office for Diversity and Inclusion, we are positioned as a national leader and a place where people of all identities feel they have a genuine opportunity for success and belonging. We encourage each of you to explore their website, which includes multiple resources including trainings and guides as well as information on events and cultural centers sponsored by their office.

There are no simple solutions or easy answers to solve the issues of injustice and prejudice in society and at our University. Of all of the various parts of our experience as administrators, this is the one area where we both feel like we have not done enough or met our own expectations. We do not experience that feeling as despair, but instead as a motivator to understand and accept our own privilege and the responsibilities that it brings to do more. We encourage our community to hold our entire leadership team accountable as we carry out that vital work together.

The challenge now is to remember this moment even if it fades from the headlines and to continue to strive for a society and a UConn that allows all to live safely and welcomed.

Sincerely,
Tom and Carl

Tom Katsouleas
President

Carl Lejuez
Provost and Executive Vice President for Academic Affairs
WE CAN DO BETTER AS A UNIVERSITY COMMUNITY
Photo by Kathy F. Atkinson June 04, 2020

A message from UD President Dennis Assanis
Editor's note: President Dennis Assanis shared this message with the University community on June 4.

Dear UD Community,

Our society is calling for equity and social justice. I hear you, and I am part of that call. We can do better as a University community. And we will do it together.

Over the past several days, many of you have written to me or posted your thoughts on social media to express your anger and frustration about the racial injustices that have been laid bare by the social unrest taking place in our nation. What’s more, I have been truly heartbroken to hear the stories of discrimination and prejudice that many of you have experienced, whether in our broader society or, unfortunately, here within our own community. It is so disturbing to see that some individuals do not grasp the insidious nature of racism and the very real pain caused by offensive and exclusionary language.

Every member of our community — students, faculty, and staff — is welcomed and valued at the University of Delaware. We must ensure that everyone is treated with respect and a sense of belonging. We should seek to find commonality, humanity, and civility to bridge our differences. We condemn the discriminatory and inflammatory words used by some members of our community. They do not reflect the University’s values. We are addressing each of these situations in accordance with the University’s conduct and non-discrimination policies.

Last week, the nationwide protests began as a response to the senseless deaths of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky — as well as the long list of other victims of discrimination and violence in American history. The global consciousness that has been reawakened by these tragedies must continue to advance our progress toward a society that is anti-racist and anti-hate. Education lies at the heart of this effort and is the key to real and lasting change.

Without a doubt, the University of Delaware can and must do more to expand diversity and promote inclusion and equity in our community. Since coming to UD, I have tried to face the challenges of history and culture that I see. Indeed, building inclusive excellence has always been personally important to me. While we have made strides in diversifying our faculty ranks and our student enrollment, there is clearly additional work to be done. I am committed — as is my administration — to redoubling our efforts to increase minority representation among our students, faculty and staff. But we know that the numbers are just one component of the equation. We must work ever harder to promote a more inclusive culture throughout UD where everyone is valued and all can expand their potential and believe in a better future.

To this end, I will be working closely with campus leaders to ensure progress and action around key needs of the University. Recognizing that these are both priorities and opportunities to take UD forward, we all need to take the following steps:

We need to build a more inclusive culture — Through education for all members of our community, we can cultivate a greater appreciation of the value of diverse peoples, cultures and perspectives. This is absolutely essential in modern society and directly supports our institutional mission to prepare our citizens to succeed. This semester we piloted an online diversity, equity, and inclusion education module. We will plan to require this training of all undergraduate and graduate students beginning in this upcoming academic year.
We need to listen and learn — We are planning a series of forums that will span the entire next academic year where all members of our community will have their voices heard and acknowledged. The input gathered at these forums will help inform our next steps as we continue to improve our campus climate with actionable initiatives. We are also mindful of those who have been silent, and we encourage them to come forward and share their stories, perspectives and ideas.
We need to act now — We will strengthen our collective awareness of and response to prejudice, diligently recruit underrepresented faculty and students, and raise funds for social justice initiatives on campus. We will also connect our campus-wide efforts and networks into a more robust agenda for larger impact.
We need to ensure accountability and operate effectively together as a united community — Everyone is responsible, and this needs to be enforced through renewed policies and practices using a framework where differences are respected and celebrated. We must also ensure that our campus climate and culture assessments are frequent and thorough, and that they reaffirm our commitment to improve the diversity and inclusion landscape at UD.
We have more to do — This list is not exhaustive, nor will it ever end. Our work to build a more equitable and inclusive society must be ongoing. We will remain committed to being open, to listening and to working together to make progress possible at UD. We not only welcome your active engagement; we need it. This is a call to action for everyone here now and with ties to UD.
There will be additional steps in the coming weeks and months. I welcome your input as we move forward. Please always feel free to reach out to Michael Vaughan, interim vice provost for diversity and inclusion, at vpd@udel.edu, or José-Luis Riera, vice president for student life, at studentdiversity@udel.edu.

This is an extraordinarily challenging time for all of us. I am inspired by the strength, the caring and the unshakable resolve of the University of Delaware community, and I ask you to join me in recommitting ourselves to ensuring that our institution continues to be a source of pride for all students, all faculty, all staff, all alumni … all people.

Sincerely,

Dennis Assanis, President


George Floyd was a member of our Third Ward community and we share in the tremendous pain our community is experiencing. Our thoughts are with his friends and family, Houston and the nation at large. We mourn with you.
June 4, 2020 | Let Us Reflect on this Day of Mourning
Dear University of Idaho Faculty, Staff and Students,

Today is a National Day of Mourning to respectfully recognize the death of George Floyd and the loss to his family as well as other lives lost. Words and actions matter, especially in times of national unrest and fearfulness, and especially from institutional leaders. They can calm or provoke, heal or hurt, and at their best, motivate meaningful change for good. The memo we sent out earlier this week regarding diversity and safety missed that last mark.

Asking that we treat each other with kindness and compassion was perceived by some as a request not to engage when we witness racism or injustice. That could not be further from what was intended. We must act against racism and injustice by addressing the change that needs to occur to create social equity.

So, today, in this moment of mourning, let me be more direct:

Black lives matter, and what happened to George Floyd and so, so many other African American and black citizens is abhorrent. No human being should ever have to fear for their life based solely on the color of their skin. The tragic fact is this is not a new phenomenon, but rather an all too frequent part of our national history.
There is no room for disagreement when it comes to basic human civil rights and crimes against humanity. We have a responsibility to engage and act when we see injustice. Truly, our future as a society depends on it.
We should be able to have a difficult conversation about race and equity issues and treat each other with civility and compassion … including on social media. This does not mean we tolerate or condone racism or hate crimes; it means that we are a place where people from all backgrounds should feel safe.
Listening — and truly hearing — the concerns of African American and black students, faculty, staff, and alumni, as well as other underrepresented communities, is critical to moving forward. Action toward lasting change matters as well. After campuswide discussions, we have adopted a diversity plan that we believe will help take action and address issues of social inequity. As Vandals, let’s work together and tackle these issues. It is the only way to realize the very best future for the community. Let’s take this National Day of Mourning to pay our respects to a life unjustly taken and work on our own reflection and racial reconciliation.

Scott Green
President

president@uidaho.edu
uidaho.edu/president
The anger, sadness, and fear felt by our community, and specifically Black communities across our nation, over the killing of George Floyd are justified. This is not a new phenomenon and the Black community is, we are sure, exhausted from the constant trauma and pain of being the recipients of mistreatment by those who are tasked with serving and protecting communities—the police.

There is also disappointment, frustration, and pain due to the continued disproportionate police brutality against people of color, specifically the Black community. These inequalities manifest themselves economically and socially. No one should feel their race or any aspect of their identity makes them a target for violence. Addressing inequality requires changing hearts, minds, and systems, and the University of Iowa will continue to work toward that goal through actions. To that end, we will release an update to our Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Action Plan, which our community has developed, this coming week.

Over the past several days, the images from across our nation are difficult to comprehend and elicit a range of feelings. While we will engage with these emotions individually, and on our own timeline, one thing is clear—together we must act. Each of us must lead change within our individual communities to actively disrupt racism (interpersonal, systemic, and societal).

As you know, on our campus and within our community:

    We will not tolerate anything but a safe and inclusive campus for people of all backgrounds regardless of race, creed, color, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, religion, ancestry, or disability.
    We value the First Amendment and freedom of expression and believe civil discourse and the respectful exchange of ideas are the cornerstones of higher education and this great institution.

We are here to help. Many resources are available and we encourage you to reach out and ask for help.
We, the Chancellor and Provost of the University of Kansas, are emerging, as many of you are, from a week of heart wrenching conversations about the toxic impact that racism has on all of our communities. The deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and David McAtee, and the exchange between Amy Cooper and Christian Cooper in Central Park, are just recent and high-profile additions to innumerable immoral acts of racism to Black members of our communities.

The protests across the country, in the region, and in our cities over the past week and in Lawrence Sunday night are powerful statements of the depth of pain and anger that so many of our students, colleagues and friends are feeling. We have done a lot of listening over the past several days, and we recognize the disappointment that our earlier messages created. We hear our community members when you tell us you are broken-hearted and exhausted, and that it’s too much to bear.

We know that acts of racism and discrimination, in their many forms, happen in Lawrence and at KU, and on a regular basis. We are not free of the causes of this period of protest and unrest.

The egregious acts of racism and discrimination that have been targeted toward our Black community members do not stand in isolation. Members of Asian, LatinX, Muslim, immigrant and LGBTQIA communities are also targets of hate speech, discrimination, and racialized violence. Our community members who have disabilities and those who experience challenges with mental health are often stigmatized, abandoned, and suffer in silence. Members of our Black and Native communities have been disproportionately devastated by COVID-19, which is another fatal reminder of the systemic disparities in health outcomes, availability of financial support, and educational resources for so many of our most vulnerable community members.

Our hearts break with yours. We stand with you and for you.

It’s long past time for racism and discrimination to end. If we are to be on the side of social justice, we — meaning, we as leaders, KU as an institution, and each of us as community members — simply must do the work.

We all need KU to be a place that doesn’t replicate, tolerate or perpetuate racism, systematically, systemically, or individually. We know you are anxiously waiting and hoping that we can get past talking and hollow promises, and do something together in a different way that begins to make things better. You want us to hold ourselves to a higher standard, and we are ready to step up, to take responsibility, and to place KU at the forefront of social change.

In consultation and collaboration with leaders of our communities of color and marginalized groups, we begin today to engage in actions that move us to change:

    We will convene the leaders of our campus police, the City of Lawrence Police Department, the City Manager and the Mayor to discuss policing strategies that reinforce respectful and community-engaged policing, and to re-emphasize comprehensive police training that does not permit the kinds of acts that led to the death of George Floyd and so many others.
    We will bring together the leaders of our diversity councils to establish a university-level advisory council for equity and inclusion and commit to regular and continued outreach.
    We will charge leaders across campus to participate in training that will allow us to begin the work of facilitating intergroup dialogues that bring together representatives of agent groups and target groups to open up difficult conversations.
    We will partner with leaders in higher education and in the public and private sectors across the Greater Kansas City Region to engage in initiatives that immediately begin to address root causes in key areas that impact racial violence.
    We will ensure that improving equity, diversity and inclusion is explicitly stated as a goal for each team in our COVID-19 Design Challenge and in the longer term, in all of our Jayhawks Rising strategic doing activities.

Memorial Hall Mural: Our Past, Our Present and Why It's Time to Move Forward
By President Eli Capilouto Friday

LEXINGTON, Ky. (June 5, 2020) — On Friday, June 5, University of Kentucky President Eli Capilouto sent the following message to all students, faculty and staff:

 

I have not been able to get the images out of my mind. And the images should be — and will be forever — in my mind.

For eight minutes and 46 seconds, on a street in an American city in 2020, George Floyd was suffocated to death — a knee at his neck, gasps escaping from his mouth, as he pleaded for his life and for his mother.

I can't adequately articulate the horror and disturbing nature of those images to me. I don't have words to capture the mix of emotions — of anger and sadness, disbelief and nagging recognition that we have been here before — that have gnawed at me for days.

But I also know that I can't begin to feel how a Black man or woman or the parent of a Black child processes those images, either.

To every issue, we bring our curated experiences — funneled through the prism of our mind's eye — to an incident like this one or, for that matter, to a work of music, writing or art. Those sounds, images and narratives are necessarily interpreted with the context of a given moment by generations of people over the passage of time.

The simple truth is I can't walk in their shoes. I can't be in their skin. And I can't understand what intergenerational subjugation does to families who are its victims.

But I can try for greater understanding, a deeper sense of empathy and renewed resolve to contribute to healing, to do justice and to find reconciliation. As much as racism is a systemic stain on our country, so too, are we the inheritors of Dr. King's admonition that the moral arc of the universe ultimately bends toward justice. That is where I believe we find ourselves as a campus community today. We have not been immune from racial prejudice and hate, but I believe deeply that there is a commitment to doing better tomorrow than we are doing today.

It's against that imperfect and human backdrop that I am directing our facilities team to immediately begin the process of removing the mural in Memorial Hall.

Why now? And what does this move accomplish?

Just as certain images haunt me, I also cannot escape certain conversations that, over years, remain fresh.

To many, the mural represents the work of a renowned artist, seeking in her time, to represent the evolution, however halting, of her native state. And as with all art, we seek to understand the intent of the artist and bring our own meaning and interpretation to it.

I remember a conversation at Maxwell Place with 24 African American students in the fall of 2015. There, they detailed a list of recommendations that included "racist mural in Memorial Hall." There was a conversation with one student about the mural who stopped me cold with the observation that every time he walked into a class in Memorial Hall, he was forced to reckon with the fact that his forbears were enslaved.

They were chattel; brutalized as disposable property, even though in their time, they were regarded as essential to the economy's progress.

The art, to this student, sought to glorify and sanitize that fact. And he was speaking for many others, over many years, a point made clear again to me recently as we began conversations with our student leaders on how to move forward during this fraught time. The mural once again was a symbol, not of a state's evolution, but of our unwillingness to recognize their experiences as members of our community.

Memorial Hall of course, has its own important story — the story of the UK students and Kentuckians who laid down their lives during the Great War. It is a building constructed in honor of all Kentuckians — African Americans, Native Americans, and women alike — who gave their lives to preserve liberty. 

How do we reconcile those images as perceived now with that narrative?

To be sure, we have discussed the mural for many years and made a number of important, productive efforts to seek common ground and lasting solutions. But the spaces we have created for dialogue, and the work we have commissioned to expand conversation and contextualize art, haven't worked, frankly.

Our efforts and solutions with the mural, for many of our students, have been a roadblock to reconciliation, rather than a path toward healing. That's not a criticism. It is a statement of fact and, I hope, understanding.

We need to move forward. We have a lot of discussion that needs to take place on our campus. And those discussions cannot obviate the necessity of thoughtful, but decisive, action on a number of fronts.

I don't believe we can have that conversation with the mural still, metaphorically, on the table. And, so while in the context of many significant issues we must discuss and decide upon, the mural may appear relatively small, it carries with it tremendous symbolic weight.

I want to remove that weight from the discussions we must have, so that we can act, together, as a community. As we determine how we can move forward with removing the mural, I will communicate with the campus.

There is rarely a perfect solution to challenging issues. But it is the right one, I believe, for our campus at this moment and in the years to come.

Eli Capilouto

--

Media note: Downloadable videos and photo available at https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1BTRFI3FPfLd1tR9KRhmI1AjYRjIrACui?usp=sharing

The University of Kentucky is increasingly the first choice for students, faculty and staff to pursue their passions and their professional goals. In the last two years, Forbes has named UK among the best employers for diversity, and INSIGHT into Diversity recognized us as a Diversity Champion three years running. UK is ranked among the top 30 campuses in the nation for LGBTQ* inclusion and safety. UK has been judged a "Great College to Work for" two years in a row, and UK is among only 22 universities in the country on Forbes' list of "America's Best Employers."  We are ranked among the top 10 percent of public institutions for research expenditures — a tangible symbol of our breadth and depth as a university focused on discovery that changes lives and communities. And our patients know and appreciate the fact that UK HealthCare has been named the state's top hospital for four straight years. Accolades and honors are great. But they are more important for what they represent: the idea that creating a community of belonging and commitment to excellence is how we honor our mission to be not simply the University of Kentucky, but the University for Kentucky.
Message to the UIC Community
May 29, 2020

Dear Faculty, Staff and Students,

This week we saw yet another manifestation of the racism that remains in the fabric of our society. The killing of George Floyd in Minnesota, Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky, along with other recent events, remind us again, though we don’t need reminding, how far we still have to go as a society to heal centuries of discrimination and achieve true equality.

We share your grief and outrage and we encourage you to continue to live the values of our university — to be inclusive, to treat each other with dignity and respect, and to provide a safe and supportive environment for each other.

At UIC, we are committed to addressing the deep systemic injustice of racism and advancing equity and inclusion for all people in Chicago, in the nation and around the world.  We are a community that values our differences, our diversity and our shared compassion for humanity. We will always strive to be one grounded in mutual understanding and respect.

If you need support coping with the disturbing events that occurred this week, we encourage you to use the many resources on campus available to support students, faculty and staff.

Sincerely,

Michael Amiridis
Chancellor

Susan Poser
Provost and Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs

Robert Barish
Vice Chancellor for Health Affairs

J. Rex Tolliver
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

Print Friendly, PDF & Email
Contact
UIC News staff

uicnews-staff@uic.edu
          Reflecting on the events in Minneapolis and beyond
May 30, 2020 11:19 AM

Dear Students, Staff and Faculty,

We, along with so many, are struggling to fully comprehend the systemic violence and the actions of members of the Minneapolis Police Department that resulted in the death of George Floyd this week. This is the home of one of the members of our Big Ten university family and our thoughts are with our colleagues and the broader Minneapolis-St. Paul community today.

And while George Floyd is who we see and mourn this week, we have also witnessed the senseless deaths of Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor this spring.

We stand in the middle of a global health crisis that will claim hundreds of thousands of lives and burden millions of others for a generation to come. These are days when the health of our communities depends entirely on our collective commitment to care for one another. This is when we most need to come together.

It is painful to watch streets filled with more anger and more violence sparked by divisive sources of hatred that our nation seems unable to set aside even when we are all threatened by this virus that does not discriminate in choosing who it harms.

For some of us, this is very, very personal. But the grief, sadness and loss is profound and universal.

The University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign is a community committed to the scholarship, engagement, equity, inclusion and leadership that dismantles systems that utilize power, privilege and violence to disenfranchise, diminish and destroy.

And unfortunately, this same pandemic that has disrupted so much, also prevents us from coming together physically here at Illinois. We are not able to help each other process what we are seeing and what we are feeling in the way we would wish. So, today, when we cannot raise our voices together, we want to share this message in the hope that it will remind everyone that we do not have to remain silent alone.  

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery. Breonna Taylor. We can say their names and we can help ensure that they are not allowed to be forgotten.  

Sincerely,

Robert J. Jones
Chancellor

Barry Benson
Vice Chancellor for Advancement

Andreas C. Cangellaris
Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and Provost

Sean C. Garrick
Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Susan A. Martinis
Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation

Danita M. B. Young
Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs

 

          
                   
                  
This mailing approved by:
Office of the Chancellor

sent to:
Everyone
          
                   
 
Massmail Archive   •   Massmail powered by Webtools
 
Students lead the way toward reconciliation
Dr. Joseph Savoie -- Sun, 05/31/2020 - 2:23pm
Dear members of the University family,

George Floyd. Ahmaud Arbery. Breonna Taylor. Tony McDade. 

Their tragic deaths – and those of countless others – are reminders that our nation has much work to do to address discrimination, intolerance and other inexcusable barriers to social justice that have burdened us for far too long.

Universities are a place where that work can occur. Indeed, they are a place where it must occur.

It is the University’s responsibility to model principles of civility, respect and understanding for both its campus family and its wider community. Moreover, it is our duty to embody inclusivity and embrace diversity, and to educate others about their power.

Today, our students exemplified these ideals.

Members of the Student Action and Organizing Committee led a community dialogue on campus about the basic human right that all people – regardless of race, religion, gender identity, sexual orientation or ethnicity – have to live in freedom and security.

These students confronted the sadness, pain and outrage they feel about the events of the past week with clarity and thoughtfulness. They answered insular hate with the diverse voice of which this institution is so proud and from which we draw so much strength.

Our students demonstrated civic engagement and community leadership today, and I applaud them.

Moreover, they showed that the path to binding our nation’s wounds – no matter how deep, how historic and how painful – can be illuminated through conversation rather than violence.

Sincerely,

Dr. Joseph Savoie
President

UM denounces racism
Message from President David T. Barnard
JUNE 2, 2020 — 
 

Dear University Community,

Recent tragic deaths have caused immense suffering and anger as they represent a legacy of racism and police brutality against Black people. We are also witnessing alarming displays of racism against the Asian community in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic; and we recognize the interpersonal and systemic racism that is continually experienced by Indigenous Peoples.

On behalf of the University of Manitoba, I want to say clearly that we denounce racism in all its forms, we commit to solidarity with Black, Indigenous and/or People of Colour (BIPOC) and we commit ourselves to listen, to learn and to do better.

For those of us with privilege, it can be easy to ignore what’s happening, to say that it is not our problem or our story here in Canada. But silence represents ignorance and fear. We must be anti-racist. We must recognize white privilege, and that we exist in systems of white supremacy. We must remember that Canada was built on the lands of the Indigenous Peoples and on the backs of Black and Asian workers. We must join our voices to say enough is enough. 

Though I can never fully understand the experiences of racialized communities, I can commit to educating myself on their stories and histories and I encourage others to do the same. I call on our university community – united in our pursuit of knowledge – to research perspectives beyond our own, to learn the many ways that racism is enforced by our social structures, to seek out difficult truths and to acknowledge harms of the past and the present.

The University of Manitoba community believes in the inherent dignity of all people. We respect our differences, celebrate our commonalities, and are united in our mutual focus on intellectual achievement. We continue to strengthen alliances that are working to increase mutual understanding, respect and support.

Finally, to UM’s racialized students and colleagues, thank you for your strength and resilience. Thank you to those who take the time to educate your peers and colleagues and to speak your truth. Thank you for contributing to the strength of our institution.

We are sorry. Now, we must listen. We must learn. We must do better.

Sincerely,
David

To anyone who is looking for support during this time, please connect with Student Counselling Centre or Employee Assistance Program. If you have experienced discrimination while working or studying at UM, please contact our Office of Human Rights and Conflict Management. UM is also home to a number of groups who are leading crucial work to address racism, and promote diversity and inclusion. 
Statement by USM Leadership on Structural Racism and the Killing of George Floyd
Baltimore, Md. (May 29, 2020) – This week, George Floyd was killed in Minneapolis, a brutal act that recalled other recent killings of black Americans. We acknowledge with one voice the structural racism that’s taking the lives of our fellow citizens, and we stand in solidarity as we speak out against racism, anti-Semitism, sexism, discrimination against our LGBTQ and immigrant communities, religious intolerance, and bigotry of any kind.

We are justly saddened, angered, and frustrated by these acts of brutality and the lack of action when black men and women are killed. Mindful of public health guidelines, we also affirm the right of our communities to protest safely and peacefully to address their legitimate concerns.

We believe that public colleges and universities are obligated to help end inequity and to promote social justice. We draw on the leadership and wisdom of our students, faculty, and staff, many of whom confront these issues every day through their teaching, research, and activism.

We encourage all members of the USM community to seek support, if needed, and to involve themselves in addressing these challenges. We urge our students and colleagues not only to vote, but to help safeguard and improve our democracy.

In the days and weeks ahead, we will be listening to the voices of those who are too often silenced or ignored. When we gather together on campus once again, we will examine with greater resolve the racism and systemic inequities that so gravely endanger our minority communities. We are proud to be a part of a University System that believes in humanity, justice, and opportunity for all.

Please take care of yourselves, your families, and your communities during this difficult time.

Jay A. Perman, Chancellor, University System of Maryland

Aminta Breaux, President, Bowie State University
Anthony Jenkins, President, Coppin State University
Ronald Nowaczyk, President, Frostburg State University
Charles Wight, President, Salisbury University
Kim Schatzel, President, Towson University
Kurt Schmoke, President, University of Baltimore
Bruce E. Jarrell, Interim President, University of Maryland, Baltimore
Freeman A. Hrabowski III, President, University of Maryland, Baltimore County
Peter Goodwin, President, University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science
Wallace D. Loh, President University of Maryland, College Park
Heidi Anderson, President, University of Maryland Eastern Shore
Javier Miyares, President, University of Maryland Global Campus

Stewart Edelstein, Executive Director, Universities at Shady Grove
Mark Halsey, Executive Director, University System of Maryland at Hagerstown
Ben Latigo, Interim Executive Director, University System of Maryland at Southern Maryland


 
Contact: Mike Lurie
Phone: 301.445.2719
Email: mlurie@usmd.edu


Pines: Stand in Solidarity, Unite Against Injustice
President-designate Calls Acts of Violence Against Black Community Nationwide a ‘Stain’ Against UMD Values

By Maryland Today Staff  /  Jun 01, 2020

Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Email
Print this article
Campus aerial shot of Hornbake Library
President-designate Darryll J. Pines writes that the injustices against African Americans in the midst of a pandemic are a double blow to black and brown communities. "They cause additional pain and grief at a time when we are dealing with so many other challenges."
(Photo by John T. Consoli)

University of Maryland President-designate Darryll J. Pines sent the following email to the campus community this afternoon:

Dear University of Maryland Community:

On Wednesday morning, May 26, 2020, I woke up to go through my normal daily routine of getting prepared for the workday. But even before I could start my morning walk with my dog, my cellphone was already vibrating with texts and emails about something that had happened the evening before. Many colleagues, family members and friends had sent me links to the now-infamous video of yet another black man losing his life at the hands of law enforcement. This time, for allegedly using a counterfeit $20 bill at a local shop in Minneapolis, Minnesota.

I took a moment to click on the links and watch the more than nine-minute video of the last breath being sucked out of the body of Mr. George Floyd. As a black man, I screamed words that I cannot repeat here. As a father, I started to reflect on the safety of my son and daughter and on all the diverse communities who are negatively impacted by acts of injustice. I asked myself, what is wrong with our country when these incidents continue to happen time and time again?

In recent weeks we have again witnessed senseless acts of violence perpetrated against the black community. The tragic loss of lives—those of George Floyd in Minneapolis, and before that, the deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, Tony McDade and Sean Reed—due to racial violence is deeply saddening and a stain against the values that we personally hold, and that the University of Maryland, as an institution, cherishes.

The fact that these horrific acts have occurred in the midst of a pandemic is a double blow to black and brown communities. They cause additional pain and grief at a time when we are dealing with so many other challenges. But the shameful reality is that the virus has disproportionately affected communities of color. It has exposed the base inequities of our health care system and made painfully clear how those who have suffered so many other injustices for so long must also unequally bear the burden of this disease. These additional acts of racism and hatred bring into greater focus the injustices occurring in our nation.

The Rev. Martin Luther King Jr., once said that:

"The ultimate measure of a man is not where one stands in moments of comfort and convenience but where one stands in times of challenge and controversy."

As a university community, we must not accept these latest incidents as inconsequential. We all must rise up and stand together to show our humanity to one another. We must remind ourselves of Dr. King’s words that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere." Finally, we must heed the words of the late President John F. Kennedy, "what unites us is greater than what divides us."

Even though we are physically separated, now is the time to stand in solidarity and unite against any injustice.

Sincerely,

Darryll J. Pines
Glenn L. Martin Professor of Aerospace Engineering
President-Designate
University of Maryland

Tags:Campus & Community

Taking Action at UMass Amherst to Combat Racism: A Message from Nefertiti Walker, Interim Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
June 3, 2020
Dear Campus Community, 

Today, I write to you with a range of emotions. Fear for protesters, some of whom encounter fierce violence. Disappointment in our country for not reckoning with our intimate relationship with anti-Black racism. Frustrated at our institutions for failing to undo the institutionalized racism that we know to be true. 

For years, Black people and allies have been pleading for the end of racism and the violence that follows. Most recently, we cried out for change after the lost lives of Trayvon Martin, Tamir Rice, Michael Brown, Philando Castile, Eric Garner and Sandra Bland, and more recently Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor and George Floyd. This list is not conclusive. This list is void of many lives lost to anti-Black racism, and countless other lives devastated by the omnipresence of our nation’s most pervasive disease, racism. 

We have been repeatedly challenged by this violence and by other disturbing acts – increased anti-Asian racism, growing xenophobia and escalating anti-Semitic attacks. This cannot, and will not, be our normal at UMass. We are hopeful and encouraged by the work we have been doing to combat racism and will continue to work tirelessly to undo it in our community. 

To that point, we are immediately getting to work with the following:

Respectful Workplace Training Series. In collaboration with the Office of Equity and Inclusion, Workplace Learning & Development and The Partnership for Worker Education, the purpose is to educate staff about resources available and supervisors (including faculty) on their responsibilities to ensure a university work environment grounded in antiracism, respect and inclusion.
Critical Incident Team. We are developing a triage team to respond consistently to critical campus issues and lead with humanity. More details to follow.
Campus Academy Initiative. The University of Massachusetts Police Department is applying for a team of campus and student leaders (including UMPD representation) to attend a three-day Campus Academy Initiative workshop in August 2020, offered by the Divided Community Project. The aim of the program is to immerse campus leaders in a curriculum aimed at strengthening and expanding campus-specific conflict-resolution capacity and practices. UMPD is committed to participating, as part of our community, in any training, seminar or effort to increase levels of understanding, prevention and responsiveness to critical issues like the ones we continue to see play out across our country.
Increased Data-driven Climate Assessments. We know that within our UMass community, we have micro cultures where people live – in their academic departments, classrooms and residence halls. We need to better understand these climates. Therefore, we will launch a series of assessments to measure and better understand the micro cultures that often impact our community most. This data will then be aggregated and live on the www.umass.edu/diversity website, providing transparency and the ability to inform the actions of the newly formed councils and task force below.
The Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Leadership Council. This council will convene immediately and be charged by the Chancellor and chaired by the Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. This group will meet regularly to assess, evaluate and advise about the university’s DEI policies and practices. Their meeting minutes will be uploaded to: www.umass.edu/diversity. 
The DEI Student Council. This will be co-chaired by the Senior Director of DEI  and the Assistant Chancellor of Advocacy, Inclusion and Support Programs. This group will meet with student DEI representatives to discuss and advance the most pressing student DEI issues. Similarly, their meeting minutes will be uploaded to: www.umass.edu/diversity.
The Task Force for Anti-racism. In response to the most recent anti-Black violence as well as the increase of other types of racism nationally, this group will be a collection of faculty, staff and students who will work to undo institutional racism in our community. They will be chaired or co-chaired by a combination of faculty, staff and students. More details to follow.
Finally, we will work with each major business unit on campus to set goals related to diversity (representation/under-representation), equity (access and opportunity), and inclusion (feeling welcome and sense of belonging). Leaders will be responsible for setting a culture of inclusion for all people in their area. Therefore, we will set and seek to meet DEI goals as they align with our campus strategic goal of inclusive excellence.

We encourage our students, staff and faculty to exercise their right to speak against the injustice they see in our society, and we implore you to join us in being part of the solutions. These resources will guide and support you in your quest for equity.

Racism, in its many forms, did not emerge overnight or in the past week. It has matured for hundreds of years. Therefore, it will take time and deliberate effort to confront. It will require intentional goal setting, data-informed decision making, and anti-racist action, to truly achieve our goal of inclusive excellence. 

Sincerely,

Nefertiti A. Walker, Ph.D.
Interim Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
Chief Diversity Officer 
Driving Change and Reform Needed
Dear Faculty, Staff and Students:

Over the course of the past seven years, together our campus community has faced and overcome many difficult challenges. As we continue to grapple with COVID-19 and its harsh economic consequences, recent national events have revealed some ugly and enduring inequities in American society, sparking anxiety, upset and outrage. In a period of American history unclear and confused in direction and purpose, one thing is abundantly clear. We cannot solve problems we do not acknowledge. The pain and loss of this pandemic have not been evenly distributed in Memphis, in Tennessee, nor across the United States. The most vulnerable among us carry the majority of that burden. This pandemic has revealed decades-long and enduring economic and health-care inequities that cut along racial lines and are at the foundation of that vulnerability. That pain has only been magnified by recent hate-filled violence against African-American men.

As an institution of higher education in one of the most diverse communities in America, our University is committed to being part of the solution. We are a place of hope, healing and healthy debate. We have an identified set of core values that embrace fairness, equity and justice, and we are committed to living those on a daily basis, particularly when they are most needed. It is clear that Memphis needs us, and we are here to help. I will be reaching out to our campus to assist in facilitating the change and reform needed. I am proud to be a Memphian, and a part of a community that works together. Our University is committed to being a part of the solution and helping drive the change and reform needed.  

Regards, 

M. David Rudd, Ph.D., ABPP
President, University of Memphis
Distinguished University Professor of Psychology

Admissions

Prospective Students
Undergraduate
Graduate
Law School
International
Parents
Financial Aid
Scholarships
Tuition & Fee Payment
FAQs
About UofM
Virtual Tour
Academics

Provost's Office
Libraries
Transcripts
Undergraduate Catalog
Graduate Catalog
Academic Calendars
Course Schedule
Graduation
Honors College
eCourseware
Athletics

gotigersgo.com
Ticket Information
Intramural Sports
Recreation Center
Athletic Academic Support
Former Tigers
Facilities
Tiger Scholarship Fund
Media
Research

Division of Research and Innovation
For Researchers
Centers & Institutes
FedEx Institute of Technology
Libraries
Grants Accounting
Environmental Health
Office of Institutional Research
Support UofM

Make a Gift
Alumni Association
Athletics Development
Administrative Support

President's Office
Academic Affairs
Business & Finance
Career Opportunities
Conference & Event Services
Corporate Partnerships
University Advancement
Government Relations
Information Technology
Services
Media and Marketing
Student Academic Success
UofM Foundation
UofM Global Explore Lambuth Campus
Follow UofM Online

Instagram
Facebook
twitter
Youtube
Linkedn
TNeCampus.info
Tennessee Transfer Pathway
Print
Got a Question? Ask TOM
Copyright © 2019 The University of Memphis
Important Notice
 Last Updated: 6/1/20
The University of Memphis
Memphis, TN 38152
Phone: 901.678.2000
The University of Memphis does not discriminate against students, employees, or applicants for admission or employment on the basis of race, color, religion, creed, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity/expression, disability, age, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or any other legally protected class with respect to all employment, programs and activities sponsored by the University of Memphis. The Office for Institutional Equity has been designated to handle inquiries regarding non-discrimination policies. For more information, visit The University of Memphis Equal Opportunity and Affirmative Action.

Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 protects people from discrimination based on sex in education programs or activities which receive Federal financial assistance. Title IX states: "No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial assistance..." 20 U.S.C. § 1681 - To Learn More, visit Title IX and Sexual Misconduct.
We need to bring about change
May 29, 2020
I have watched and read in horror reports of the death of George Floyd in Minnesota. Many members of the University of Michigan community have reached out to me to express their heartache and anger that another unarmed African American has been killed by police, who have violated their duty to protect and serve.

I want to thank those of you who have shared your personal feelings on this tragedy. I know that your pain is very real and profound. Many members of our community are experiencing this tragedy in ways that are inseparable from their race and ethnicity – and in ways that I will never be able to fully and personally realize. For instance, our Chief Diversity Officer Robert Sellers has very poignantly written about his experiences today.

I condemn the actions that caused the tragic deaths of George Floyd, of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and of Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. There are far, far too many more examples of racism and violence against people of color from all across our nation, including in our surrounding community.

The reality and scope of this problem are pervasive. A 2018 study whose authors included U-M Institute for Social Research fellow Michael Esposito found that "the risk of being killed by police, relative to White men, is between 3.2 and 3.5 times higher for Black men." Thanks to U-M Political Science Prof. Christian Davenport, we know that the exercising of fundamental rights is treated differently, as "African American protest events are more likely to draw police presence, even when we control for the measures of behavioral threat."

At U-M, we must use our power to address major societal problems – especially those that diminish our society so tragically. This is clear in our mission.

Our mission is also why our work to enhance diversity, equity and inclusion must continue. The University of Michigan has a critical role to play and obligation to lead the kind of changes in our society that we all want to see. I know that our Division of Public Safety and Security is committed to being a continuing partner in this ongoing work. DEI will continue as a major focus of the institution throughout my presidency, beyond our initial five-year Strategic Plan. We must utilize our scholarship, the education and the engagement of our talented faculty, students, and staff to bring about change not only within the university, but also in our broader society. Our collective future depends on it.

During this difficult time, I urge anyone who needs support to access our university's resources.

Students on all three campuses can receive support through CAPS, the university's counseling and psychological services. All faculty and staff in Ann Arbor, Dearborn and Flint can access services through the Faculty and Staff Counseling and Consultation Office. Michigan Medicine faculty and staff can access resources through Office of Counseling and Workplace Resilience.
Skip to navigationSkip to content
Committees
Chancellor Appearance Request
Contact
Office of the Chancellor
University of Missouri

About Planning Inside Mizzou Remarks & Presentations Distinguished Leaders Lecture
June 4, 2020: Tigers leading change
Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Alumni,

Over the last several days, we have seen an outpouring of support for those who have faced racism, both in our community and throughout the country.

University leaders and I have sent notes in recent days voicing our sorrow over the recent injustices and tragic deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor. We have vowed to do more as we have met with numerous black students, staff and faculty who have described the immense toll that systemic discrimination and racism has taken on their confidence in justice, on their mental health and on their hope that true change will ever happen.

We have been watching closely the social media thread #BlackatMizzou on Twitter and Instagram since it began earlier this week and are listening to powerful testimonies from our previous and current students featured there. I can tell you my heart has been rocked by this experience as have many others, and those who shared these posts should know their experiences are valued and have not been ignored.

Each tweet is a sobering reminder of the ugliness many of you have faced. I have been discussing these comments with our deans, faculty and university leaders, and we are learning from the common themes shared while also looking into some specific cases mentioned. These stories of name calling, racist assumptions and lack of response to injustice illustrate to me that our work is far from done related to inclusion, diversity and equity. I wish I could have been there each time these incidents occurred to call out the perpetrators, to hold them accountable and to support those who’ve been affected. But, that’s not possible. So, I call upon each one of us to take the stand to confront discrimination when it happens and to provide care and compassion to those who have suffered from it.

Mizzou continues to be committed to creating an inclusive community where everyone can live, learn and work in an environment that supports and celebrates each individual. I am grateful to our many students, faculty and staff who have worked tirelessly for change at Mizzou. I assure you that we will not stop pressing, and we will strive to spread the responsibility from those who have shouldered the brunt of the work to the larger community. Over the last several years we have done a lot of planning and created some progress and action. We all must do more.

Our community must address this important work together. Some are asking for details of our progress in recent years. To that end, we are organizing community conversations soon to discuss what we have been doing and how we can build on that foundation for a better Mizzou. We will share details in the coming weeks.

On behalf of the faculty, department chairs, deans, provost and the staff, I confirm that we will take important positive actions.

We know our Tiger family will lead change.

Mun Y. Choi, Ph.D.

UM System President and interim MU Chancellor

University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211
573-882-2121

© 2020 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution.

Skip to navigationSkip to content
Committees
Chancellor Appearance Request
Contact
Office of the Chancellor
University of Missouri

About Planning Inside Mizzou Remarks & Presentations Distinguished Leaders Lecture
June 4, 2020: Tigers leading change
Dear Students, Faculty, Staff and Alumni,

Over the last several days, we have seen an outpouring of support for those who have faced racism, both in our community and throughout the country.

University leaders and I have sent notes in recent days voicing our sorrow over the recent injustices and tragic deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor. We have vowed to do more as we have met with numerous black students, staff and faculty who have described the immense toll that systemic discrimination and racism has taken on their confidence in justice, on their mental health and on their hope that true change will ever happen.

We have been watching closely the social media thread #BlackatMizzou on Twitter and Instagram since it began earlier this week and are listening to powerful testimonies from our previous and current students featured there. I can tell you my heart has been rocked by this experience as have many others, and those who shared these posts should know their experiences are valued and have not been ignored.

Each tweet is a sobering reminder of the ugliness many of you have faced. I have been discussing these comments with our deans, faculty and university leaders, and we are learning from the common themes shared while also looking into some specific cases mentioned. These stories of name calling, racist assumptions and lack of response to injustice illustrate to me that our work is far from done related to inclusion, diversity and equity. I wish I could have been there each time these incidents occurred to call out the perpetrators, to hold them accountable and to support those who’ve been affected. But, that’s not possible. So, I call upon each one of us to take the stand to confront discrimination when it happens and to provide care and compassion to those who have suffered from it.

Mizzou continues to be committed to creating an inclusive community where everyone can live, learn and work in an environment that supports and celebrates each individual. I am grateful to our many students, faculty and staff who have worked tirelessly for change at Mizzou. I assure you that we will not stop pressing, and we will strive to spread the responsibility from those who have shouldered the brunt of the work to the larger community. Over the last several years we have done a lot of planning and created some progress and action. We all must do more.

Our community must address this important work together. Some are asking for details of our progress in recent years. To that end, we are organizing community conversations soon to discuss what we have been doing and how we can build on that foundation for a better Mizzou. We will share details in the coming weeks.

On behalf of the faculty, department chairs, deans, provost and the staff, I confirm that we will take important positive actions.

We know our Tiger family will lead change.

Mun Y. Choi, Ph.D.

UM System President and interim MU Chancellor

University of Missouri
Columbia, MO 65211
573-882-2121

© 2020 — Curators of the University of Missouri. All rights reserved. DMCA and other copyright information.
An equal opportunity/affirmative action institution.

Chancellor Green: 'Racism in any form is wrong and has no place in our lives'
Nebraska students hand out "Hate Will Never Win" T-shirts in the Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center before a campus rally in February 2018.
Craig Chandler | University Communication
Nebraska students hand out "Hate Will Never Win" T-shirts in the Jackie Gaughan Multicultural Center before a campus rally in February 2018
Editor's Note — Chancellor Ronnie Green was among higher education leaders who responded to the national protests spurred by the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. The chancellor's message, which is below, was released May 30 via his Twitter account to connect immediately with students, faculty, staff and the broader community.

Chancellor Ronnie Green delivers his third State of the University address on Jan. 15. The speech examined the university's 150-year history and charted a course to 2025 and beyond.
Craig Chandler | University Communication
Chancellor Ronnie Green
Jane and I are sickened by the horrific injustice in Minneapolis, and the other forms of injustice that we know we don't see first-hand. Our hearts ache for the senseless loss of George Floyd and his family — and too many others.

Racism in any form is wrong and has no place in our lives, our communities, or institutions. Yet it remains.

Those of us entrusted to leading institutions must stay committed to truly listening, truly learning and to understanding our own bias. We need to encourage honest conversations, big and small, that can help bridge this divide and address deeply embedded histories of exclusion.

I hope and continue to believe that higher education, particularly institutions focused on access, can play a positive role in these conversations.

Review the chancellor's message and responses it received on Twitter.
A message of solidarity from UNLV President Marta Meana
MAY. 31, 2020
Dear colleagues and students,

It is with a heavy heart that I reach out to you in light of the appalling death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis Police. This is just the last in a far too long list of similar atrocities and there is only so much we can bear.

UNLV stands in solidarity with our African American faculty, staff, and students in denouncing this heinous act, in expecting accountability, and in demanding systemic change. The distress that this has caused in our community runs wide and deep. Racism is a far greater long-term threat to this country of ours than any virus. We need to confront it head on and together.

Universities have a responsibility to be beacons in the journey out of this unacceptable state of affairs. Let us double down on our efforts. We need to do this for each other. We need to do this for ourselves.

With sadness and hope,

Marta Meana, Ph.D.
UNLV President
I can’t breathe—again

As we gathered our thoughts at having to address, once again, the reality of the brutal death of an unarmed black man, George Floyd, we must categorically condemn the racism, abuse of power and brutality that led to his death. Mr. Floyd, who pleaded repeatedly for his life—I can’t breathe—eerily evocative of the equally violent death of Eric Garner and so many other black lives, is yet another deeply troubling lost life that ought to serve as a day of reckoning for all of us. As a nation, not only have we not resolved the historically deep wounds of structural racism, inequality, injustice and violence in our country, but those divisions, dramatically intensified in recent times, significantly challenge our democracy. We know from extensive evidence that hate and racial violence have increased to frightening levels in recent years. Let us also bear witness to the fact that in a few months we will be marking the one year anniversary of the El Paso mass killings, one of the deadliest anti-Latino and anti-emigrant hate crimes of recent years; a year ago, also, the shooting in the Poway synagogue took place; increasing attacks on mosques, and many others. These sobering realities must continue guiding our educational mandate on equity and inclusion through meaningful collaborations and much needed healing. Our deepest sense of solidarity to the family of Mr. George Floyd. Our particular support goes out to our Black students, faculty and staff in these somber moments.

Sincerely,

Marc A. Johnson
President
and
Eloisa Gordon-Mora
University Diversity and Inclusion Officer
President, Provost call for focus on core values in wake of George Floyd's death Minneapolis
June 1, 2020

Dear UNH Community,

Like virtually all Americans, we reacted with horror at the recent death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. This was particularly painful coming on the heels of the shooting of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia and Breonna Taylor in Kentucky. While the circumstances of these deaths were different, they all underscore the risks to black people interacting with police or simply going about their daily lives (as was demonstrated vividly by what happened to Christian Cooper in New York City). It is beyond belief that more than 50 years after the passage of the Civil Rights Act, nearly 30 years after Rodney King’s beating, six years after the shooting of Michael Brown and the choking death of Eric Garner, tragedies like this continue to occur. It is clear that, as former President Obama said in a recent statement, "If we want our children to grow up in a nation that lives up to its highest ideals, we can and must do better." Our hearts go out to our African American students, faculty, staff and alumni who are particularly affected by these events.

What is the responsibility of a public university like the University of New Hampshire in this situation? We have an obligation to fight ignorance, intolerance and bias, and to teach equality, respect and kindness—these are core values at UNH . The university is where we tackle societal challenges and work together to find solutions. This is founded on our mission to support the bedrock American principle that we are all created equal, and that all of us, regardless of any differences, should enjoy equal rights, opportunities and freedoms. It is fair to say that this passion for freedom is particularly acute in New Hampshire. We must ensure that our students and the whole UNH community deeply understand this shared commitment to our fellow citizens, to better understand when it has been violated. Our recent climate survey revealed that we have our own work to do in this area, which we will continue to do.

We cannot remain silent in the face of the trauma that these events inflict on marginalized communities across the country. We are united in our rejection of hate and intolerance, and call upon all in our community to support each other and those who are surely feeling the weight of these events. We all must renew our commitment to providing a safe and inclusive environment for everyone at UNH, including in interactions with UNH and Durham police. UNH Police Chief Paul Dean has worked extensively to build strong positive relationships with underrepresented students and has provided direction and training to his officers to do the same. Durham Police Chief Dave Kurz has done this as well.

As a research university, we also have the responsibility to address significant national issues. We will conduct a review of our research portfolio and look for opportunities to stimulate and support research on this important national problem. We hope that research can help us to identify practical steps that can be taken to protect the well-being and safety of all Americans while also improving our own racial understanding.

In the coming weeks, we will be meeting with and creating opportunities for faculty, staff and students to come together and share their input and guidance on responding to this challenge. Even in the face of the pandemic and the need to work and learn remotely, we must not lose sight of the importance of all aspects of our mission. In the aftermath of experiencing or witnessing trauma, it is normal to experience a range of feelings and emotions, such as shock, fear, sadness, anger, helplessness or guilt. For those members of our community who are feeling the trauma of this most acutely, we want to remind you that services continue to be available including: Psychological and Counseling Services (PACS); the Beauregard Center (formerly OMSA); Health and Wellness; and the Office of Community Equity and Diversity.

This is in so many ways a challenging time in America, but we as a people have risen to challenges before, and we will find ways to meet this one. We will be in touch with more detail on opportunities for education, research and conversation soon. In the meantime, our wish for all of you is health and safety.

James W. Dean, Jr.
President

Wayne Jones
Vice President and Provost
Leaders at The University of New Mexico have issued strong statements
condemning the brutal killing of George Floyd by police officers in Minnesota
on Memorial Day and the actions of those seeking to prompt further violence at
ensuing protests.
"Watching what is happening across our nation, I join the many voices who are
outraged and condemn not only the actions of the officers who killed George
Floyd, but police brutality against any and all communities of color," said UNM
President Garnett S. Stokes.
Following reports that extremist groups were using civil protests against police
brutality to further elicit violence, President Stokes stated that "peaceful protest
is a healthy way for people to express the hurt, fear and anger these types of
actions incite." She went on to say, "It is abhorrent that white nationalist groups
are taking cover behind legitimate national protests concerning George Floyd and
police brutality to provoke violence against black businesses and society at large."
UNM Police Chief Kevin McCabe issued the
following statement:
"What transpired in Minneapolis this past Memorial Day was appalling and
disgusting – in my opinion, this does not represent American law enforcement and
those who committed this heinous act or stood by and did nothing to intervene
lack the humanity, integrity, and honor to wear the badge of a police officer.
Their senseless actions have stained every professional law enforcement officer
who swore an oath to protect and defend the communities they serve but it is
also a clear call for all of us to stand against this type of abuse of power.
As a police chief, to see this type of brutality makes me sick but I am confident
that justice will prevail in this case. I, along with every member of The University
of New Mexico Police Department, not only strive to do our very best every day
to protect and serve those within our community but also be examples of police
officers that our community expects and deserves."
May 30, 2020
ALL UNIVERSITY MESSAGE
Message from campus leaders on events in Minneapolis
Carolina is committed to fostering an environment whereby the personal rights, lives and dignity of every member of our community matters.

Posted by University Communications, Saturday, May 30th, 2020
Bell Tower
The UNC Bell Tower on the campus of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill October 6, 2016. (Photo by Jon Gardiner/UNC-Chapel Hill)
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on Pinterest
Share via Email
Print Friendly
Like so many of you, we have seen the recent events in Minneapolis where George Floyd, an unarmed Black man, died while in the custody of police officers. We denounce the actions of the police officers and support the decision to hold those responsible accountable.

This incident comes on the heels of similar acts of violence against Black people across the country. As we struggle to comprehend these events, we share your sadness, grief and frustration, and recognize the pain the recurrence of such senseless acts of violence and racism causes for so many members of our community. We add our voices to those calling for transparency and accountability.  

We are committed to fostering an environment whereby the personal rights, lives and dignity of every member of our university community matters. The events of this week underscore the important work of our Campus Safety Commission,and we are grateful for their continued efforts and collaborations with campus leadership.   

As we build our community together, even while many of us are apart, we hope that we all take some time to check in on each other. Next week, the University Office for Diversity and Inclusion, which seeks to unite our Carolina community and foster a sense of belonging and safety for all, will offer a space on its website for #YourVoiceMatters, where you may share your thoughts, perspectives and feelings anonymously. We hope you will participate.  

We recognize the stress these events cause members of our community, especially the Black community, and encourage anyone needing help to utilize the following  available resources. For students, you can contact the Office of the Dean of Students or Counseling and Psychological Services.  The Employee Assistance Program is available for faculty and staff.  

In solidarity and with unwavering resolve, 

Kevin M. Guskiewicz
Chancellor  

Robert A. Blouin
Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost 

Sibby Anderson Thompkins 
Special Assistant to the Chancellor and Provost
Interim Chief Diversity Officer 

George Battle
Vice Chancellor for Institutional Integrity and Risk Management 

David Perry
Associate Vice Chancellor and Chief of UNC Police 
Saturday, May 30, 2020
Dear Niner Nation,

Like so many of you and others around the nation, I was heartbroken by George Floyd’s death in Minneapolis on Monday night and the horrifying video of his final moments. The recent killings of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery are further examples of the systemic racial injustice that continues to plague our country.

I want to acknowledge the pain, trauma, and frustration that many of our students, faculty, and staff are feeling. These events have a powerful and personal impact on members of our community. Last night in Charlotte, we witnessed the community's unrest in response to the death of George Floyd as many people organized in protest of the ongoing racism against the Black community. 

I join with others to ask: What can I do? What can we do as a University that is committed to creating an equitable and safe environment for our students, faculty, and staff in one of the most diverse and vibrant urban cities in America?

As a community of educators and scholars, we hold a special responsibility to raise our voices to condemn the violence against Black people, other people of color, and other historically marginalized identities. It is up to us to lead, modeling civility, respect, and holding true to the values of diversity and inclusion that ensure all members of our community will thrive. At UNC Charlotte, I want us to question why incidents such as these occur, and what role we can play in creating an equitable and just world. We cannot accept apathy or indifference or silence; otherwise, we allow hatred, prejudice, and intolerance to grow.

One of the many special qualities of Niner Nation is the rich diversity of our community, feedback we consistently hear from students about why they love this University. For our African-American students, faculty, and staff, know that your Niner Nation family is here to support you. We always want to ensure that everyone feels welcome on campus, and that we are consistently providing a safe and inclusive environment.

If you need support during this time, please do not hesitate to reach out to the resources available to you. 

Counseling services are available to faculty and staff through the Employee Assistance Program and to students through the Christine F. Price Center for Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). These services will continue throughout the summer. Our Office of Identity, Equity and Engagement staff members are also available to support members of our community.  

The Counseling and Psychological Services Center is hosting a student-centered Healing and Empowerment Gathering on WebEx to develop self-care, coping strategies, and connection for Black students who have been impacted by racial injustice from 2 p.m. - 3:30 p.m., Thursday, June 4. You may register here. 

Unfortunately, as we know all too well, racism and bigotry will not end overnight. But we will never create a community and world where everyone is equally valued and protected unless we speak out, show up, and advocate for the rights of all.

Sincerely,

Chancellor Philip L. Dubois
Philip L. Dubois
Chancellor
We Must Stand Together – An Official Notice from the President
Monday, June 1, 2020

Dear UNT faculty and staff,

We are all deeply disturbed and saddened by the tragic events that led to the murder of George Floyd. Once again, we ask why an unarmed black man was killed by a police officer while colleagues looked on without intervening. People of color and white allies everywhere in our country have shown their shock and outrage through protests, and the collective rage people feel has led to more violent actions while we wait for answers. But no answers have been given. 

Thoughtful people everywhere want to see justice and racial equity, and we all hope and pray for an end to the bitter institutional racism to which we all bear witness. While there have been cries of condemnation for these horrific events, there has not been a cohesive national dialogue, and I fear the violent reactions we see are creating yet deeper divides. 

For some of our community members, these events feel all too familiar and there is concern that this could happen to them. Here in Denton, and at UNT, we are not immune to the challenges that the Black Community and law enforcement are facing. A former Black student was stopped at night last week by our campus police for not having a safety light on his bike. After our police confirmed that he had an outstanding warrant, this young man attempted to flee and was arrested after a brief struggle. This is an all too common scene in modern America and calls for all of us to do better as we negotiate the nexus of law enforcement and fear. 

In the fog of peaceful protests and with cities in flames, most of us are isolated from our normal campus connections and, lacking normal dialogue, we respond by listening to emotionally charged and often inaccurate social media. We take sides, and it becomes so easy to "like"or comment in ways that dehumanize those whose views don't match our own.

Before the COVID-19 crisis, we started to take a harder look at our culture, and the impact of discrimination and racism on our campus. That dialogue, and the healthy response to becoming a more intentionally inclusive campus, largely stopped as we took on yet another crisis. Today, I am calling on everyone in our community to show our caring and compassionate values. It is a time to come together – to listen – and to have the difficult and uncomfortable conversations we need to become the inclusive and caring community we aspire to be.

This week, I am inviting our community to rekindle these discussions. Our university will host two Black Lives Matter President's Virtual Town Halls with the first one set for students from 2 to 3:30 p.m. Friday, June 5. The second one is for faculty and staff and will be hosted from 2 to 3:30 p.m. Monday, June 8. The discussions will be framed around the three questions: How are we feeling? How does this relate to my experience at UNT? How can we move forward? Community members can ask questions during the event or send me questions in advance to untpresident@unt.edu.

As a higher education community, we want peace and racial justice as we continue honestly reckoning with our past. I hope you will join me and other campus leaders in this critical conversation that will help us return to campus as a stronger, more united community that celebrates our diversity, caring nature and commitment to a community where everyone feels equally valued.

Respectfully,

Neal Smatresk
UNT President
George Floyd’s tragic death cries out for justice and a recommitment to fight racism. Recalling the image of Father Hesburgh and Rev. Martin Luther King Jr. locked hand-in-hand in 1964, we pray, on this Feast of Pentecost: Come, Holy Spirit, inspire us to work for justice, solidarity and a healing of divisions." 
May 31, 2020

Ninety-nine years ago today, blood began to flow down Black Wall Street and the Tulsa Race Massacre ensued, marking one of the most tragic events in the history of our state and nation. And now, nearly a century later, we continue to live with the same violence and vitriol. The recent killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and George Floyd are stark examples of black lives lost due to senseless brutality. We know that racism in all of its forms, explicit and implicit, is never more unfair than when it leads to the needless loss of a life. To become the country we know we can be, we must honestly address the issues that underlie these societal divisions and make real, systemic change. I urge our entire OU family to lend support, advocacy, and love to the marginalized black members of our own community. Together, we are stronger.

Joseph Harroz, Jr.
President  
Recognize today’s challenges; provide comfort and care
June 1, 2020

Colleagues, 

If anything is certain in these very uncertain times, it’s that racism exists in our society.

So what does one say when it seems like there might not be anything one can do to immediately fix things? Under normal circumstances, we might hold one another or offer words of encouragement, anything to show that we care. We would be present with one another. Yet, we are denied that at this moment because of the COVID-19 pandemic.

A collection of recent events – from the newly launched investigation into the slaying of Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia to the black birdwatcher in Central Park who was threatened by a white woman to the brutal killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis – have left many of us feeling hopeless, scared, and exhausted.

My request here is that we all, faculty in particular, provide extra flexibility for members of the community who are at their limit because of the ongoing inequities involving so many others. That these challenges around race are occurring in the face of the challenges we are seeing from the pandemic makes it even worse. It is OK to acknowledge our exhaustion, as the coronavirus has pushed our community hard, and we have risen to the occasion beyond what nearly anyone could have imagined.

We are exhausted, but we are resilient, and we are getting there. But the circumstances of the last few days, as well as the general climate around race and justice over the preceding years, decades, and indeed centuries brings into bright relief the continuing inequities within our society. The civil unrest around the George Floyd killing has ripped open the wounds and threatened to grind our exhaustion into despair.

What words can I offer to ameliorate these feelings? None that can authentically speak to the true feelings that only the lived experience of the individual can truly validate. Our faculty, staff, and students of color – particularly our black students – are feeling scared, angry, and they are questioning what the world is doing to address injustice.

Not enough. Never enough.

We each sit with our own thoughts at this moment. We cannot hug each other when we need it most. But what we can do is acknowledge that we are going through this together, and that we must support each other as we can. But we must also recognize that different members of the community will be suffering more than others, and we must recognize that that suffering is born from each individual’s experience and life path.

So, as we bring this term to a close, I request that all faculty recognize that students may be going through a particularly tough period that makes it difficult for them to focus on their schoolwork. As you know, we have already instituted a flexible pass/no-pass structure for all students in all courses. This should provide students with flexibility and solace as they finish out their work. However, I also ask all faculty to be very open if a student requests that they might need a little more time to finish off an assignment that is due this week and to do so without question.

Let’s also make sure we accommodate and care for each other. Our work this spring has required an unprecedented level of flexibility and generosity of spirit. I am very grateful for everyone’s hard work in making that generosity a hallmark of the UO community. Indeed, I sense that we have always felt it as one of our core principles. But now we can be assured that it is a rock upon which we will continue to mount a response to each and every challenge—and a rapidly changing world—together.

Sincerely,

Patrick Phillips
Provost and Senior Vice President
Statement on the death of George Floyd
May 30, 2020
Amy Gutmann, President

Once again our nation mourns. The tragic and senseless death of George Floyd is a vivid reminder of the inequalities and unacceptable indignities that so many of our citizens constantly endure. The events in Minneapolis this week should lead everyone to recognize how much more work our society must do to realize liberty and justice for all. As a nation we have much work to do.

While the entire Penn community weeps, and our hearts are filled with sadness for this senseless loss of life, we should remember the importance of Penn’s commitment to doing our part to create a more inclusive and mutually respectful environment and society free from discrimination and deprivation.

I especially want Penn’s African American students, faculty, and staff to know how much they and their contributions to our community are treasured. It is particularly important at this difficult time that Penn’s students of color know their University supports them, which we unequivocally do. While we may be apart physically at this point in time, we are truly together in spirit.

We all long for the day when we never again bear witness to such a needless death. Our prayers are for the Floyd family, and for a healing of our nation’s soul. Let all of us in the Penn community use this moment to recommit, from the deepest corners of our hearts, to creating a living and learning environment that is truly safe and welcoming for all.
Statement on Racial Injustice and the Death of George Floyd
June 2, 2020
Dear Members of the University Community: 

It is impossible to forget the image of George Floyd, gasping for air as a police officer who is sworn to protect and defend calmly kneels on his neck until he dies. It is both a shocking scene of violence that should never happen and a potent reminder that it continues to happen all the time.

The painful truth is that persistent and systemic racism continues to fuel a deep injustice toward African Americans. The familiarity of this tragedy has ignited widespread protests and demonstrations—not only across our country, but across the globe.

We are outraged because it is outrageous. How many times must we witness these blatant examples of injustice, hatred, brutality and discrimination before we resolve to change things?  

This is a time for demonstrating solidarity with our African American community. To the University of Pittsburgh’s African American students, faculty, staff and alumni: We stand with you in demanding better and are committed to working with you to make meaningful changes.    

Unfortunately, grief and anger are emotions too easily exploited. Some are happy to create confusion, sow conflict and incite violence and ultimately erode our fundamental rights to peaceably gather and demand real change. This, too, is a painfully familiar pattern. Against a rising toll of injury, death and recrimination, we stand to lose our solidarity—replacing it with ever-deepening divisions.  

Do we have to go down this road?

In this moment of raw grief and anger, we must plot a path forward. We must find ways to build bridges, listen and empathize—even when it is uncomfortable. And we must demand better of our leaders, holding them accountable by voting and pushing to reform the laws and institutions of our democracy. Working together, we have enormous power to realize change.

But this is also a time to turn the lens inward and consider our institution’s own role in perpetuating unfair structures and systems. A university is not an ivory tower but an extension of society—a place dedicated to advancing knowledge for everyone’s gain. Racism degrades our pursuit of true equality, liberty and justice, and it undermines our ability to create opportunity through teaching, research and service. Our university must become a better, more equitable place, and we can do more.

These local efforts may seem like small acts in the face of a national civil crisis, but they can catalyze powerful change. The University of Pittsburgh is a longstanding leader in our region. Yet, for all of our remarkable accomplishments, African Americans living within the Cathedral of Learning’s shadow are still confronting an alarming opportunity gap. We can expand our efforts to translate our work into practice and spur a local renaissance in our surrounding neighborhoods and communities.

Reshaping our university to be more diverse, inclusive and just—while also expanding our reach and impact in promoting social justice—is a significant effort, and we will need to resource and sustain this transformation over time. Because of this, I am putting our nearly complete strategic planning process—which aims to chart Pitt’s course over the next five years—on hold. This pause will give us time to incorporate specific strategies to strengthen our commitments to racial equity and justice. I will need your help in identifying the most promising initiatives in this final plan, and I hope you will participate.  

To jumpstart this work, we are scheduling and planning a number of opportunities to convene virtually so that we can share ideas, experiences and expertise related to eliminating racism and injustice near and far. In the days ahead, we must continue to stand in solidarity as we work to forge a better, more equitable future for all.  

Respectfully, 

Patrick Gallagher
Black Lives Matter: A GSO Perspective
Aerial view of the URI Narragansett Bay Campus
June 4, 2020
A statement from URI Graduate School of Oceanography Dean Bruce Corliss.
I am writing to follow up my statement last week in On the Waterfront should you not have had the opportunity to read it. The senseless death of George Floyd has created despair and anger across the country and, as the URI Senior Leadership Team stated in a recent email, is a reminder of the oppression and injustice still too prevalent in our society. The Graduate School of Oceanography and the University of Rhode Island are committed to a more just and equitable society and university community. I write to re-confirm that commitment to promote and respect diversity and justice for all within our campus and within the nation as we struggle to address systemic problems within our society and across the country.

The death of George Floyd and long-standing anti-black racism, together with a lack of progress to address the roots of these crimes, have led to frustration and anger generated by police brutality, racial injustice and a culture among some that condones violence. This anger is also based on societal and structural racism that has pervaded the fabric of America. Societal racism includes inequalities in income/wealth distribution, availability of health care and affordable health insurance, and educational opportunities, and is perpetuated not only by individuals and institutions, but by lawmakers passing legislation that precludes or limits opportunity to minority communities and, in particular, to Black Americans. Politics matter. These societal and financial inequities have existed for a very long time, and the lack of progress to address these inequities is at the core of the problem that the country faces today.

GSO has actively made efforts to attract minority faculty and students in general, and specifically African Americans, to join GSO and will continue to do so. In addition, professional societies have fostered and reinforced the need to increase underrepresented minorities in the sciences, and in particular Black Americans. But, clearly we as an institution and a discipline must hold ourselves accountable and do better. It is time to reflect upon and then redouble our efforts to ensure that current and prospective faculty, students and staff of color feel that they belong and are supported.

The GSO faculty voted last year to remove the GRE test requirement in graduate applications, as this has been shown to be a bias against minority students. This year a NOAA proposal was submitted to recruit and provide support to summer students from the University of Maryland Eastern Shore, a Historically Black College and University (HBCU), as part of our CINAR effort, an effort that follows a commitment we made last year when we submitted the Cooperative Institute proposal. We also reached out this year to another HBCU institution, Elizabeth City University in North Carolina, to inquire about their possible interest in joining the East Coast Oceanographic Consortium with the goal of developing a pipeline of underrepresented students at GSO and other ECOC institutions. In an effort to increase the diversity of future oceanographers, GSO’s NSF-REU program (SURFO) is committed to recruiting students from underrepresented groups. Recruiting at HBCUs and Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs), attending conferences focused on scientists from underrepresented groups (SACNAS) and forming a partnership with the Puerto Rico Louis Stokes Alliance for Minority Participation have begun to effect change. Last summer, half of our SURFO student participants were from underrepresented groups. We look forward to next week when a new cohort begins, with almost half the young scientists from underrepresented groups. 

These efforts do not address the inequities and injustices that presently exist with structural racism in America, but are examples of our commitment to recruit and welcome Black students, students of color and other minorities to oceanography with the goal of promoting equity within the science community.

This is the time to address questions of inequity, justice and the rights of all individuals in our society. It is a time for reflection and for discussion, but it is also a time to develop and execute plans to address these issues. Recognizing that the scarcity of Black oceanographers is a result of an unjust K-12 educational system, a key goal of GSO’s outreach efforts is to prioritize access for underrepresented communities to ocean science. GSO will continue to spark partnerships with under-resourced schools throughout Rhode Island and minority serving institutions across the country. We are emboldened to strengthen these efforts.

As part of that effort, GSO will help make meaningful partnerships with minority serving institutions within the East Coast Oceanographic Consortium to develop opportunities for Black and minority students. This summer, we will also share on the GSO website opportunities for discussion on systemic racism offered by the URI’s Office of Community, Equity and Diversity.

There have been many thoughtful statements across the country that address recent disturbing racist acts and the need to confront racial injustice and the culture that fosters it. I would like to share one by Dr. Sudip S.Parikh, CEO of the AAAS, that is an insightful statement about the need to come together in the science community to address the challenges that we are all facing. 

GSO is committed to moving forward in a thoughtful and meaningful way in the days and years to come. Please reach out to me and other GSO leaders if you would like to express concerns or suggestions.

Sincerely,

Bruce H. Corliss
Dean, URI Graduate School of Oceanography
The University of Rochester
Search Rochester.edu
Office of the President
About Sarah Mangelsdorf Messages Contact Us Past Presidents Inauguration 
 BACK TO SARAH C. MANGELSDORF MESSAGES
Flying the University Flag at Half-staff to Honor George Floyd
JUNE 4, 2020
The past months have been challenging for all of us, and the last few weeks especially have laid bare the challenges that we as a society and as a University are facing with respect to the blight of systemic racism and racial injustice. The leadership of this institution is committed to candid conversations, to listening, and to real and effective action to address the concerns of our black students, faculty, staff, and alumni and their allies. And we recognize that this must be a shared commitment. We will be sending a broader message on this essential topic shortly.

Today, we are flying the University of Rochester flag on the Eastman Quadrangle and at the Medical Center at half-staff to commemorate today’s memorial service for George Floyd and as a step to demonstrating our public commitment to anti-racism in every area of this institution. We are all feeling the anguish of injustice today. I stand with you in sorrow and anger, and look forward to joining with you in doing the work that must be done.

Sincerely,

Sarah C. Mangelsdorf
President

FOR: StudentsParents & FamiliesFacultyStaffAlumniLocal Community
Text Only Contact Us Newscenter Calendar Futurity
River Campus (mailing address): 500 Joseph C. Wilson Blvd., Rochester, NY 14627

River Campus (GPS/maps): 252 Elmwood Ave., Rochester, NY

Medical Center: 601 Elmwood Ave., Rochester, NY 14642

Eastman School: 26 Gibbs St., Rochester, NY 14604

Maps & Directions

FacebookTwitterYouTubeInstagramLinkedInTumblrFuturityMore social
EMERGENCY COPYRIGHT ACCESSIBILITY NONDISCRIMINATION & TITLE IX© University of Rochester 1996-2020
A MESSAGE FROM PRESIDENT BOB CASLEN
May 31, 2020

With heavy hearts, we mourn the horrific killing of George Floyd at the hands of a police officer while three other officers stood by in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Our thoughts go out to Floyd's family and to the families of all those who have been the victims of violent murders fueled by racism and hatred in our country. These events are a stark reminder of the dark divisions that continue to run through our society, the legacy of a dark past that we have not yet fully reconciled. We must acknowledge these divisions and commit to becoming a more just and equitable society.

We stand in solidarity with the African American community, as these events have only compounded the sense of grief, fear, and loss brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. Here as well, we are reminded of the systemic biases that shape our realities. It is our collective responsibility to challenge these institutional inequities and to demand better for ourselves and for future generations.

As Gamecocks, let us be leaders in these efforts. Our Carolinian Creed calls on us to respect the dignity of all persons, to respect the rights and property of others, to discourage bigotry, while striving to learn from differences in people, ideas, and opinions. Violence and hateful rhetoric are not reflective of these values. If we are to begin the process of healing the wounds of racism, hate and bigotry that have brought us to this current tipping point, we must engage one another in thoughtful dialogue about our individual and collective experiences. We must do the work of educating ourselves about the harmful impact of racism and discrimination in all of its manifestations.

Anti-discrimination and anti-harassment training are currently provided to UofSC faculty and staff and required of all students who are new to the Columbia campus. And multiple units are engaged in advancing diversity and inclusion initiatives across our campus. However, given this pivotal moment in which we find ourselves, we will intensify these efforts to ensure that we are equipping our students, faculty and staff with the tools needed to effectively navigate the current tensions in our society. To this end, we are assembling a team to work on the implementation of a new diversity module that will be required of all UofSC freshmen as part of their orientation process beginning in the 2020-2021 academic year. And we will amplify the training available to all students, faculty and staff to ensure that we have the resources needed to foster a campus culture that is reflective of our Creed.

In his 1963 "Letter from a Birmingham Jail,"Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. acknowledged the "interrelatedness of all communities and states,"noting that "injustice anywhere is a threat to justice everywhere. We are caught in an inescapable network of mutuality, tied in a single garment of destiny."Let us turn our anger into action, demanding justice where there is injustice, peace where there is violence, and love where there is hate. Let the suffocation of this moment be the impetus for change.

Campus Resources:

To report incidents of bias or hate, submit a Bias and Hate Incident Form

UofSC Counseling & Psychiatry: 803-777-5223 

UofSC Police Department: 803-777-4215

 

Tracey L. Weldon
Interim Chief Diversity Officer, Office of the Provost
Associate Dean, College of Arts and Sciences

Bob Caslen
President                                                                               
Message from USF President Steven C. Currall
MAY 30, 2020UNIVERSITY NEWS
To Members of the USF Community:

I believe I speak for the entire University of South Florida community when I express our deep sadness over recent events in Minneapolis and around the country. The deaths of two black men, George Floyd in Minneapolis and Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia, should prompt us to pause and think about how racism impacts all of our lives.

Although neither of those individuals were affiliated with the University of South Florida, events such as this have a powerful impact on people of every background and in every community.  The impact is magnified in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic, which has so badly shaken us all.

As we work to help each other understand what has happened -- if we can ever truly understand -- I find myself reflecting on the Principles of Community we aspire to at USF;  to treat each other with respect and dignity, refrain from displays of inappropriate anger or intimidating conduct, shun epithets or abusive language, find effective means to disagree, and to persuade and to inform through dialogue.

For our students, faculty and staff, I want to remind them of the resources available through the university’s Office of Diversity, Inclusion and Equal Opportunity, the Office of Multicultural Affairs and the USF Counseling Center. I urge you to seek out their support.

I believe we must support and care for each other during times like these and not forget that each of us is empowered to stand up to injustice whenever and wherever it occurs.

Thank you.

Steve Currall

Steven C. Currall, Ph.D.
President and Professor
University of South Florida
Note to Community from President Folt
May 31, 2020

Dear Trojan Community,

I write today, hoping you and your families are well and safe, yet knowing that many of you are not; your hearts are aching, and you are searching for answers, actions, and hope. The horrific deaths of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery and so many others, together with the demonstrations and unrest sweeping our nation are tearing at us all.  

These violent acts come at a time when our world has already been profoundly disrupted by COVID-19. And many of those hit the hardest are people of color, particularly African Americans – the very same people in communities already burdened by a history of prejudice, poverty, and especially racism.  

Many of you have told me that you are feeling sad, angry, desperate and despairing as you face such grave injustices and the escalation of tensions, and you are trying to find a way forward.

It weighs heavily on all of us. But we are Trojans, united as a university dedicated to the fundamental principles of equality and inclusion, education, and discovery for the good of humanity. We can make a positive difference, as we have for more than 100 years.

I don’t have the answers today, but we will continue to seek them together. I know that we can effect change – in our community, our city, and our nation. Now, more than ever, we need to rely on each other and help each other and our neighbors through these times. We are a community strengthened by the diversity that you bring – we are the students who want to change the world, the faculty dedicated to inspiring young leaders, the staff who keep the university running, the healthcare workers on the front lines, the social workers, the business leaders, the community organizers, the creators, entrepreneurs, teachers, and scholars our nation needs, and so much more. We must be there to support our communities. And, we know we can.

This moment is our call to action. It will be challenging to confront directly issues like racism in our community, but we must. We have started discussions with our student, faculty, staff, and alumni organizations, our civic leaders and our neighbors in the community. We recognize the need for continued conversations around policing, and our chief of the USC Department of Public Safety will be partnering with our campus and broader community to find collective answers to persistent inequities. We will engage you to break down silos that separate us, encourage thoughtful debate, and protect the dignity of every individual in our community. Together, we will stand for justice and embrace a culture of respect for all.

With respect and admiration,

Carol L. Folt
President

Adobe PDF version
His Name is George Floyd
May 30, 2020
We will step forward and show the world what kindness, equity, and inclusion for all people can look like

George Floyd. His name is George Floyd and he should be alive today. Sadly, the list of black people in America subjected to violence is long and getting longer. We grieve for their moms, dads, spouses, sons, daughters, brothers, sisters, grandparents whose loss is unimaginable. We grieve for their friends and neighbors and their community. I condemn brutality in all its forms, but it is most egregious in the hands of those who have taken an oath to protect.

My heart aches for so many as senseless acts of racism and violence continue. The pain and fear are evident in the protests, media, and conversations. The pain and fear are real for so many members of our campus community. We should all be angry, and for many anger has been replaced with exhaustion.

We must do better. Vol is a Verb, and action is important. We will continue the hard work to create a campus where everyone matters and belongs. Where anyone can study, work, learn, teach, jog, and live their daily life without fear. Where education becomes the great equalizer for anyone who wants it. Creating an environment for all Vols to succeed is a responsibility we all share.

Many groups have been working for weeks on making our campus safe for the return of students in the fall—safe from COVID-19. Some ask how is that in 2020 we still face the need to make sure that students, faculty, and staff are safe from racism. Black friends and colleagues have expressed to me that they are tired of having this conversation only to have it followed by another disgusting display of racism. We all need to join together to carry the torch of safety, dignity, respect, and human rights for everyone. We will do both of these things—plan for a fall safe from the coronavirus, and also plan for a future at this university where everyone feels safe and respected, where we have achieved our goals of being a place where everyone matters and belongs.

I will be convening members of our campus—students, faculty, staff, UTPD—in a conversation about how we pull together, support one another, and create the campus we want to have. I will work in partnership with student, faculty, and staff representatives to listen, learn, and take action. At a time when we are separated by distance, it is more important than ever to be united in commitment and support for one another. Take time to check on your friends and colleagues who might be having a difficult time. They are in pain and they need to know we are here for them.

Volunteers step forward in leadership and service. We will step forward and show the world what kindness, equity, and inclusion for all people can look like.

Donde Plowman signature

 

 

Donde Plowman
Chancellor
Dear UTA Community,

I am writing with a shared sense of shock, fear, outrage and sadness as we reflect upon the senseless killing of George Floyd as well as recent incidents of hatred, inequality and ensuing violence. This touches me deeply as it brings back scarred memories of years of racism and bullying I endured during my youth simply because of my ethnicity. I am forever grateful to my adopted country that has allowed me to heal my wounds and pursue my dreams.

Now, more than ever, it is time that we renew our own commitment to and uphold the values set forth in UTA's Principles of Community. The basis for our UTA Community is mutual respect "…members of our community build trust by finding ways to communicate with one another respectfully. With civil discourse, our other principles will follow. Therefore, we will listen, not just to hear, but to try and understand."

Our nation and our society face tremendous challenges in overcoming racism, discrimination and injustice. As scholars and students, teachers and mentors, I believe each of us at UTA has our own role in making a difference, changing all that is broken and accentuating the good I personally have experienced.

As Dr. Martin Luther King stated, "One of the great liabilities of history is that all too many people fail to remain awake through great periods of social change…Today, our very survival depends on our ability to stay awake, to adjust to new ideas, to remain vigilant and to face the challenge of change."

Let us commit ourselves to act with fairness, justice and mutual respect for all.

Sincerely yours,

Teik C. Lim, Ph.D.

President ad interim

#UTAUnited
Turbulent and Difficult Times
June 1, 2020

Dear UT Community, 

This isn't the first letter I'd planned to write as interim President of The University of Texas at Austin. I had a series of welcome messages set to go out today. But they didn't anticipate or acknowledge the events of the past few days and the pain those events have caused for so many — so I had to start over. 

Today's transition comes during a turbulent and difficult time. We are experiencing widespread outrage, anger, sadness and reflection here in Austin, throughout Texas and across our country. The senseless killing of George Floyd and the ensuing protests have gripped the nation. As I watch these events unfold, I feel for those who are in pain and am acutely aware that we must continue our struggle for meaningful and enduring change to overcome acts of racism and violence that corrode our community.

These challenges come as we are already responding to the COVID-19 crisis, which has become so much more than a life-threatening disease. It has paused or disrupted many of the core elements of our daily lives, forcing students to adjust to learning remotely and a different market for internships and jobs; requiring faculty and staff members to work in new, less comfortable ways; threatening many individuals' ability to keep their jobs and earn a living; and impacting our health care and education systems.

As we navigate these difficult times, I am reminded of just how critical The University of Texas at Austin is for our community, state, nation and the entire world.

UT has always been a special place to me, as a student, faculty member and dean of the McCombs School of Business. Now more than ever, I see that the creation and dissemination of knowledge are the most effective antidotes for injustice, inequality and intolerance, and for the advancement and improvement of our society. And that's what we do at UT.

We say, "What starts here changes the world."Those starts and changes don't just happen. They are the result of actions — large and small, as individuals and in teams — by our students, faculty, staff and alumni.

Without question, 2020 has not been the year any of us wanted it to be. We have seen political dysfunction, a global pandemic, economic distress, racial tension — and it is only June 1. In facing these struggles and uncertainty, we need people who can think creatively, develop workable solutions and solve difficult problems. The University of Texas has always had a mandate to be a "university of the first class."Part of that mandate means that this university and the people of this community will take an active role in addressing the critical problems our society is facing.

As Longhorns, when we are tested, we don't shy away. When we are challenged, we don't fade into the background and shrink from our responsibility. We come together and draw upon the diverse range of talent, energy and passion that we have on the Forty Acres, to take on the most important and difficult issues of our time. I look forward to working with you to do that in the days and months ahead.

Sincerely yours,

Jay Hartzell
Interim President

The University of Texas at Dallas - Office of the President
May 31, 2020

Over the last few days, I have heard from concerned students and colleagues about the horrific footage of George Floyd’s killing in Minneapolis.

I have watched the outrage over this tragedy from cities around the country. I have seen the emotional outpouring as people demand change in our society, and I have personally felt great anguish watching a defenseless man die while begging for help from those who are sworn to protect us.

As one who believes in the American ideal, this week has been difficult to comprehend. I know that I am not alone in questioning how our society can move forward when too many people are denied their rights. And so terribly often, those treated the most violently have been black.

Change must occur, and each one of us must play a role in effecting this change.

As president of UT Dallas, I reinforce the values of community, diversity and tolerance we share on our campus. I stress the imperative that we must live these values daily, and I emphasize the resolve we must have to honor this commitment now and into the future.

We, at UT Dallas, recommit to providing a safe, welcoming environment to all people, regardless of race, religion, ethnic origin, disability, gender identity or sexual orientation.

Each one of us — staff, faculty and students — must take these principles into our core if we are to have any hope of effecting change in our society. I ask that we all recommit ourselves so that, as Comets, we live the values we hope become reality for all people across our nation.

Let UT Dallas be a beacon of decency to the rest of the nation.

Sincerely,

Richard C. Benson
President
Eugene McDermott Distinguished University Chair of Leadership


The University of Texas at Dallas
800 W. Campbell Rd, Richardson, Texas 75080-3021

View this in your browser.
Turbulent and Difficult Times
June 1, 2020

Dear UT Community, 

This isn't the first letter I'd planned to write as interim President of The University of Texas at Austin. I had a series of welcome messages set to go out today. But they didn't anticipate or acknowledge the events of the past few days and the pain those events have caused for so many — so I had to start over. 

Today's transition comes during a turbulent and difficult time. We are experiencing widespread outrage, anger, sadness and reflection here in Austin, throughout Texas and across our country. The senseless killing of George Floyd and the ensuing protests have gripped the nation. As I watch these events unfold, I feel for those who are in pain and am acutely aware that we must continue our struggle for meaningful and enduring change to overcome acts of racism and violence that corrode our community.

These challenges come as we are already responding to the COVID-19 crisis, which has become so much more than a life-threatening disease. It has paused or disrupted many of the core elements of our daily lives, forcing students to adjust to learning remotely and a different market for internships and jobs; requiring faculty and staff members to work in new, less comfortable ways; threatening many individuals' ability to keep their jobs and earn a living; and impacting our health care and education systems.

As we navigate these difficult times, I am reminded of just how critical The University of Texas at Austin is for our community, state, nation and the entire world.

UT has always been a special place to me, as a student, faculty member and dean of the McCombs School of Business. Now more than ever, I see that the creation and dissemination of knowledge are the most effective antidotes for injustice, inequality and intolerance, and for the advancement and improvement of our society. And that's what we do at UT.

We say, "What starts here changes the world."Those starts and changes don't just happen. They are the result of actions — large and small, as individuals and in teams — by our students, faculty, staff and alumni.

Without question, 2020 has not been the year any of us wanted it to be. We have seen political dysfunction, a global pandemic, economic distress, racial tension — and it is only June 1. In facing these struggles and uncertainty, we need people who can think creatively, develop workable solutions and solve difficult problems. The University of Texas has always had a mandate to be a "university of the first class."Part of that mandate means that this university and the people of this community will take an active role in addressing the critical problems our society is facing.

As Longhorns, when we are tested, we don't shy away. When we are challenged, we don't fade into the background and shrink from our responsibility. We come together and draw upon the diverse range of talent, energy and passion that we have on the Forty Acres, to take on the most important and difficult issues of our time. I look forward to working with you to do that in the days and months ahead.

Sincerely yours,

Jay Hartzell
Interim President
President Eighmy addresses UTSA on standing together for social justice
President Eighmy addresses UTSA on standing together for social justice
JUNE 2, 2020 — Editor’s note: The following message was sent via email today from President Taylor Eighmy to all students, faculty and staff:

The recent incidents of racism, violence and killing of Black citizens in our country are a stark reminder of how we must rid deeply rooted bigotry and injustices from our society. I am horrified by these senseless killings and—as I said in my statement over the weekend—I find myself feeling deeply frustrated by the lack of progress made by our country since civil rights activists fought for equal rights 56 years ago. The impact of COVID-19 on communities of color is yet another heart-wrenching example of the reality of ongoing national systemic inequities.

We cannot let the deaths of George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor go unnoticed or unaddressed. Nor can we ignore the countless other Black people and other people of color who have lost their lives to senseless acts of violence. We must call out and condemn these racist acts, stand together in the fight for justice, speak out and enact change. On behalf of UTSA’s entire leadership team I want to convey to Black students, faculty and staff in the Roadrunner community that we see you and we will continue to fight alongside you. Black Lives Matter.

I believe public research universities have a responsibility to be at the forefront of change for our country. I believe we can serve as models for diversity, equity and inclusion. I believe we are all born with the same potential—but not given the same opportunities. I believe education is a great equalizer and has the power to change lives and create a more just and equitable society. I believe we have an obligation to ensure that Black students and other underrepresented students feel welcome in our inclusive community, experience a powerful educational journey and graduate prepared to change the world.

We have our own work to do to be exemplary in building an environment of inclusive excellence on our campus. Much work has been done on this front in the past year and much more is planned, including upcoming training sessions in August on addressing racial bias, anti-racist efforts and microagressions. We recognize the need for continued conversations around policing, building on Fair and Impartial Policing training implemented by our UTSA PD last year. I hold myself—and UTSA’s entire leadership team—accountable for continuing to move beyond acknowledging the issues and to provide spaces for our community to fight for justice in effective ways.

Tomorrow’s community gathering, hosted by the Multicultural Student Center for Equity and Justice, is an opportunity to support our grieving and angry community. For any of you who may need additional support, please reach out:

For students, UTSA Counseling and Mental Health Services offers same-day or next-day phone and video counseling sessions.
For faculty and staff, counseling services are available through the Employee Assistance Program.
I encourage all of you—the entire Roadrunner community—to take time to process, take care of one another and take action to move our nation forward.


Diversity and Inclusion: Recognizing our Shortcomings, Working to Improve
Over the past few days, we were made aware of social media comments made by a few students that are racist, offensive and harmful to our community. We are appalled and disheartened that any member of the NC State community would choose to make such abhorrent statements.

To say the words and actions in those posts stand in complete opposition to NC State’s values is an understatement.

As a public institution, NC State is bound by privacy laws such that we cannot share information about individual students or the specifics of investigations. We know that many will not be satisfied with this response, but please know these incidents are being addressed.

At this challenging time across our nation, and in our own community, we want to be clear where NC State leadership stands: We stand against and condemn white supremacy, racial injustice and all forms of racism and discrimination. NC State’s Black students, faculty and staff deserve a campus culture where they feel safe, supported, respected and valued. We are committed to doing all we can to protect, promote and advance diversity, equity and inclusion at NC State.

These incidents remind us that we fall far short of where we aim to be. We need to do more and do better. As a Wolfpack, we must remain united and committed – every one of us must actively contribute to help ensure a more diverse and inclusive environment. And, we need to be innovative and try new ideas and approaches to embrace and advance diversity and inclusion.

We may not get it right every time, but we are committed to listening to the voices and lived experiences of those impacted and challenging ourselves to do the work necessary to build a more just and equitable NC State.

As one first step, in the coming academic year, we will require every student, faculty and staff member to complete diversity and inclusion learning modules. This will include every member of Cabinet as well as all of the deans, directors and department heads of the university.

As another step, we are assembling an interdisciplinary team to evaluate NC State’s policies, examine every opportunity to strengthen them against racism and discriminatory behavior, and modify, where allowed by law, to bolster our commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion.

When students return in the fall, we commit to working with them to collaboratively review NC State’s Code of Student Conduct and examine opportunities for improving and strengthening the code, where allowed by law. We will also work with students to review, update and improve our university’s statement of values. When complete, we will expect every student at NC State to uphold these values that define the inclusive and supportive culture that we seek for our community.

Additionally, when students, faculty and staff return to campus, we want to move to a place of dialogue and partnership to have difficult but necessary conversations, better gauge what is needed, what is possible, and working together, what we’re going to do about it. We are working on a plan to facilitate those discussions.

These are not the last things we will do, and they are not nearly enough to overcome the many challenges related to actively addressing both the individual acts of racism and the system of racism to foster belonging for all. But they are a few next steps, and we are fully committed to doing more to keep moving forward.

We are a university that is about transforming lives and making the world a better place. This mission is more important today than ever before. We have much work yet to do, work that will require humility, empathy, resilience, hope and engagement. We remain committed to striving today and every day to ensure a university climate that embraces, values and advances a diverse, inclusive and supportive campus culture.

W. Randolph Woodson | Chancellor
Warwick Arden | Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost
Charles Maimone | Vice Chancellor for Finance and Administration
Brad Bohlander |Chief Communications Officer, Associate Vice Chancellor of University Communications
Boo Corrigan | Director of Athletics
Marc I. Hoit | Vice Chancellor for Information Technology
Kevin Howell | Vice Chancellor for External Affairs, Partnerships and Economic Development
Sheri L. Schwab | Vice Provost for Institutional Equity and Diversity
Brian Sischo | Vice Chancellor for University Advancement
P.J. Teal | Secretary of the University and Assistant to the Chancellor
Mladen Vouk | Vice Chancellor for Research and Innovation
Marie Williams | Associate Vice Chancellor for Human Resources
Lisa Zapata | Interim Vice Chancellor for the Division of Academic and Student Affairs
Message from President Cockett
May 31, 2020

USU President Noelle Cockett

Full Size
Dear USU students, faculty and staff,

The tragic death of George Floyd in Minneapolis was extremely disturbing to watch. The national protests and unrest that have followed prompt me today to publicly reaffirm Utah State University’s and my own personal commitment to inclusion and respect in our Aggie family and in those communities we reach every day.

Clearly there are many troubling, systemic issues confronting us as a nation, and I think these highly volatile moments are opportune times for us to look inside ourselves to see how we can personally help address and alleviate injustice. These are the times for our Aggie Family to join together and reflect about our commitment to USU’s Principles of Community – our institutional Aggie pledge to diversity, human dignity and social responsibility.

Please join with me today as I reassert one of my critical obligations as university president: to cultivate an environment of respectful engagement and respectful discourse at every level of our society. Thank you.

Respectfully,

Noelle E. Cockett

President, Utah State University
27
CONTACT
Tim Vitale
Associate Vice President for Strategic Communications
University Marketing and Communications
 435-797-1356
 tim.vitale@usu.edu

ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
- Aggies Think, Care, Act
TOPICS
    
Post your Comment
We welcome your comments but your submission will NOT be published online. Your comment or question will be forwarded to the appropriate person. Thank you.
Justice, Inclusion and Humanity – May 30
 June 1, 2020
TU students, faculty and staff,

This past week has brought a heightened sense of shock and sadness as we witnessed an unarmed man being deprived of his rights, his dignity and, eventually, his very breath. George Floyd’s death was captured on video and shared with a world already on edge.

Whether it’s on a Minneapolis street in 2020 or in a Tulsa elevator in 1921, the legacy of racism is deep, pervasive and intolerable.

You, the members of our university community, have a choice. You can choose to recognize bias – in yourself and others – and have the personal courage to call it out. You can be vigilant and vocal. You can be an agent for positive change and an advocate for those at risk of being marginalized. Although we are apart, we are not alone. We are stronger together, and we must live our commitment to justice, inclusion and humanity.

Janet K. Levit
Interim President
A Message About Grieving and Searching for Answers Together
My Dearest UVM: I write to you to share what is on my heart. I am bursting with so many emotions, I need to share. As I wipe away tears that keep forming in the corners of my eyes, know I am thinking of all of you, my UVM family. I really appreciate the calls and texts from so many of you who wanted to make sure I was okay. I am also grateful for the calls where you shared your ideas, anger, and grief with me. Like many of you, I watched in horror the video showing the death of George Floyd at the hands of Minneapolis police officers. I sobbed for George as if he was my own son or brother lying on the cold, hard concrete. I then wept for Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and Tony McDade, and soon I was crying for the many who have tragically lost their lives over the years because of racism and inequality. 


Unfortunately, the killing of black men or women by police is not new; it is so common that initially many turned to the usual responses: hashtags, T-shirts, flags, and national leaders condemning this horrific act. Still, George Floyd's homicide seems different to me and so many Blacks or African Americans. Was it the cold, hard concrete he died on, the cry for his mama as he took his last breaths, the plea from so many to help him that was ignored, or was this just the final straw? I continue to reflect on why this tragedy has become a global call for change and action. Regardless, this hurts me to the core. I am exhausted. My Black and African American family and friends are exhausted. We are sick and tired of being sick and tired.

As an African American woman who is also the University's Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion, I am yearning for justice, looking for accountability, praying for solutions, and wishing we could be together to comfort one another. This crime against humanity, coupled with the impact of COVID-19 on us as a society has forever changed us. Exactly how we let these events change us, is up to us. For me, I am choosing to remain hopeful and draw upon my faith as I push away my tears, so I can see a better future. 

Despite the challenges we face and the fear we may feel, let us redouble our efforts and insist on systemic reform. I know we cannot take on everything, but we can have an impact at UVM, and in the communities where we serve that will branch out to advance critical social and cultural efforts everywhere. We must use our educational platform to share and enhance knowledge, understanding, ideas and solutions that not only address issues of prejudice and discrimination, but also transform lives for generations to come. We must endeavor to inspire professionals who will be more just, equitable, compassionate, and anti-racist.

As we grieve and search for answers together, I ask that you look after one another, in particular for those of us that are Black or African American. I ask that you condemn any behavior that diminishes the humanity of others. This vicious cycle must be broken because if not now when? The world around us seems to be exploding right now, and we all deserve better. I know I could say so much more. This will not be the last time you hear from me. This work of racial equity has been my life's work, and I need help now more than ever. I need partners. Let us collectively work together and steadfastly to confront and address generations of institutionalized racism. 

I am going to start by hosting a Teach-In to help catalyze action. In addition, I intend to create digital "Brave Spaces,"to support and lift up voices from within our University that are committed to this work. I am asking you to join me, plan with me, lead with me, and when I reach out for your help, please answer my call in both your words and your actions.

This is my single story, so please listen to others who have stories they are willing to share. Your voice matters, and no one can take that away from you unless you give it to them.

In Solidarity for Change and Peace,

Wanda
                                 
Wanda Heading-Grant
Vice President
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

PUBLISHED06-03-2020
WANDA HEADING-GRANT, VP DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCL
The University of Vermont Burlington, VT 05405 (802) 656-3131Contact UVM | Accessibility | Privacy/Terms of Use | © 2020
Dear VCU and VCU Health community,

For several days, I have watched crowds of people across the nation and here in Richmond express their anger and frustration over distressing, horrific events against African Americans in our country, including the recent killings of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Breonna Taylor in Louisville, and Ahmaud Arbery in Georgia.

What I see again and again is a very public manifestation of American history and, indeed, America’s present. It is impossible to comprehend centuries of horrifying injustice against minorities in this nation, particularly African Americans. Yet, even in 2020, your skin color still influences your social mobility and vitality even more so than where you were educated, live, or work. In America, it is still far too easy for those with privilege and prejudice to undo the hard-earned successes of others, particularly racial minorities. Individual, institutional, and structural racism is still our tragic reality.

We must do better. We must recognize and respect the dignity and humanity in each of us.

This also calls for us to remain mindful of the communities we share. The protests over the past few days on and near VCU’s Monroe Park Campus have resulted in damage to our shared community, including broken windows and doors, graffiti, damaged vehicles, and debris fires. I am grateful to our many employees who have responded quickly to make repairs and keep everyone on our campus safe to live, learn, and heal.

We will work together to fix what’s broken here. We must fix what has been broken in our communities across this nation for decades. 

Let’s commit to repairing broken systems that serve to create mistrust in government and law enforcement. Let’s resolve to make equitable and fair the distribution of justice. Let’s pledge to reconcile our own struggles between who we are and who we strive to become as individuals and as communities.

As we continue to process what is happening across our nation—especially the very public violence against African Americans and to our shared communities—the one thing that makes sense is that we can no longer afford to stand by idly. None of us is immune. We must stand to change the systems we have created. We must continue to empower and support our faculty, staff, students, alumni, and neighbors to change the world by voting, and by making equity and inclusion accessible everywhere. We must think about our shared humanity in more enlightened ways, because quite frankly, black lives must matter if we are to ever realize the potential of VCU’s shared community and the vast privileges of belonging to a global community.

Sincerely,

Michael Rao, Ph.D.

President

VCU and VCU Health System

21st-Century University, Community, To VCU
Tagged Ahmaud Arbery, Black Lives Matter, Breonna Taylor, George Floyd

Skip to main contentSkip to search
VIRGINIA TECH™HOME
Universal Access Toggle
APPLY
VISIT
GIVE

SHOP

Resources for

VIRGINIA TECH DAILY

MENU

SEARCH
Virginia Tech Daily/ Articles/ 2020/ May/ A statement from President Tim Sands and Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity Menah Pratt-Clarke
Explore
A statement from President Tim Sands and Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity Menah Pratt-Clarke
May 31, 2020

Aerial view of Virginia Tech Drillfield
Dear Hokies,

As we reflect on a tumultuous week in the United States – surpassing 100,000 in the official count of deaths ascribed to COVID-19 and the boiling over of frustration and anger over the tragic and unnecessary deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and George Floyd - we do so from the relative safety of our quiet Blacksburg homes. Jarring images and videos taken by some of our own children on the streets of Chicago and Washington, D.C., bring home the immediacy of the crisis. It saddens us to know that many in our Virginia Tech community have lost loved ones, or have been traumatized by the events of the past weeks.

Dwelling on images, dramatic events, and counts can distract from the common truths that the pandemic and race-driven murders reveal. As great as our ideals of freedom, justice, and equality may be, the reality is persistently and pervasively falling short of what we say we are all about. From the marked disparities in COVID-19 illness and death across racial, ethnic, and economic divides, to the unrelenting burden of racism, past and present, systemic and overt, we cannot continue to expect incremental change and the goodwill of the majority to solve a multigenerational problem.

So what do we do? What actions can we take? While there is a place for protests, we must do more than protest. We have an opportunity as individuals and in our own communities to construct a microcosm of the society in which we wish to live. At Virginia Tech, we have anchored that aspiration in our Principles of Community, but principles only become meaningful if they are acted upon. Our strategic plan, The Virginia Tech Difference – Advancing Beyond Boundaries, takes the principles one step further to actionable priorities and accountability. Let’s work together to ensure that Virginia Tech becomes a model for a just and equitable learning community that prepares the next generation to lead in a new and better world. Over the next few weeks, the Office for Inclusion and Diversity will be working in collaboration with diversity directors, InclusiveVT representatives, diversity committees, advocates, and allies to identify specific action steps to work for sustainable transformation. We hope you will join in those efforts to help make our world a better place for all.

In the spirit of Ut Prosim,

Tim Sands,
President
Menah Pratt-Clarke,
Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity
Those in the Virginia Tech community who need assistance or counseling support may contact:

Cook Counseling Center at 540-231-6557.
Dean of Students Office at 540-231-3787. Referral to a campus cleric may be made through this office.
Employee Assistance Program
Anthem at 855-223-9277
Aetna at 888-238-6232
Kaiser Permanente at 866-517-7042
Optima Health Vantage HMO at 866-846-2682
Hokie Wellness at 540-231-2233 (students) or 540-231-8878 (employees)
InclusiveVT at 540-231-7500
Office of Housing and Residence Life at 540-231-6205
Women’s Center at Virginia Tech at 540-231-7806
CONTACTS:
Tracy Vosburgh

540-231-5396

Mark Owczarski

540-231-5396

Top News
Article Item
Three people on a zoom call
Unfinished Conversations on Race: Education is key in combating racism, article
Article Item
Caption: Webster Santos (center) and the mitochondrial uncoupler team. Six males are smiling as they stand in front of a large window in Hahn Hall.
Virginia Tech drug researcher develops ‘fat burning’ molecule that has implications for treatment of obesity, article
Article Item
2020 President’s Award for Excellence recipients during celebration on June 4
Five employees named as recipients of the 2020 President’s Award for Excellence, article
TAGS
Beyond BoundariesCampus and CommunityInclusion and DiversityOffice of the PresidentStrategic PlanTop News
Map of Virginia with pins showing locations of Virginia Tech campuses. See All Locations link which follows provides details
Virginia Tech logo
GET DIRECTIONS  

SEE ALL LOCATIONS  

CONTACT VIRGINIA TECH  

University Status
Principles of Community
Privacy Statement
Acceptable Use
We Remember
University Libraries
Accessibility
Consumer Information
Stop Abuse
Policies
Equal Opportunity
WVTF
University Bookstore
Jobs at Virginia Tech
Strategic Plan
© 2020 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved.

Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linked In
Pintrest
YouTube
Share to Facebook
, Number of shares695
Share to Twitter
Share to LinkedIn
Share to Email
To the University community,

On Sunday, I offered some brief reflections on social media regarding the death of George Floyd. Those reflections and that medium were inadequate to the topic, which is why I am writing you today.

Let me start with the obvious but nonetheless essential. What happened to George Floyd – his callous and indifferent killing at the hands of a white police officer – was immoral and sickening. As Dean Risa Goluboff wrote recently, it might be tempting also to say it was "shocking,"but that wrongly suggests it was surprising. The recent and senseless deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and so many others before them whose lives were cut short demonstrate otherwise. This sort of violence against black people, including at the hands of those who are supposed to protect all of us, is sadly all too familiar and stretches back not just decades, but centuries, through the Civil Rights Era, Jim Crow, Reconstruction, and slavery.

And let me apologize. When I wrote last weekend, I felt deep despair. Despair for the treatment experienced by so many people of color in this country – not just by police, but by every segment of society, including higher education, including here at UVA. Despair for the current state of our country, which seems to be unraveling before our eyes. Despair for the continued racial inequities across a wide range of contexts – education, criminal justice, health care, housing, jobs – that are still there, as is the systemic racism that underlies those inequities.

But in my own despair, in indulging in it, I failed to express the genuine sorrow I feel for the unequal and unfair burden that I know our black students, faculty, and staff carry with them, not just through this episode, but through every day. George Floyd's death is just another sharp reminder that far too many people of color in this country live a life that is less secure – less safe – than white people, in part because of encounters with police officers who inflicted harm on people they were meant to protect. As a white parent of four kids, I have not had to have the conversation that so many black parents have had with theirs, cautioning them about how to behave around those who are meant to protect all of us. For all of that, I am truly sorry – both for that burden and for failing to acknowledge it.

And I know it's time to act and not simply to despair or rest on faith. Over the weekend, the Division for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion at UVA posted a powerful statement from a group of faculty, staff, and community members reflecting on the latest tragedies. In it, they wrote:

We must continue to do the hard work that will help ensure that our future is different, more just, more accepting, and more inclusive. The future we envision is one in which the devaluing of life is no longer accepted, and where bigotry no longer contaminates our systems and institutions, burdening some community members much more than others.

I couldn't agree more, and I am committed to that work. It's in many ways why I came (back) here.

Through the hard work of many students, faculty, and staff – not to mention the persistent advocacy of alumni and community members – UVA is a better place today than it was a decade ago, or the decade before that. But there is more work to do in order for UVA to look more like the state and country in which we live; in order for UVA to be a trusted neighbor to the Charlottesville region; and in order for all students, faculty, and staff to have their voices and their presence equally valued, respected, and included in their everyday lives on Grounds.

I have tried to champion some of that work in my two years as president, and some of it – like increasing student and faculty diversity and being a good neighbor to the Charlottesville region – is in our strategic plan. To complement and push that work forward, today I have asked three colleagues to lead a racial equity task force: Ian Solomon, the Dean of the Batten School of Public Policy; Kevin McDonald, our Vice President for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion; and Barbara Brown Wilson, a faculty member in the School of Architecture and the faculty director of The Equity Center. This group will convene with students, faculty, and staff to gather together the growing list of recommendations, suggestions, and demands regarding the subject of racial equity at UVA – and to solicit others – and will send me a concrete and prioritized set of recommendations about the best steps forward, including actions that can be implemented right away.

Eleven days after I returned to UVA to begin as president, I spoke at an event to mark and remember the one-year anniversary of the white supremacist march through Grounds the year before. As I said then and will say again here:

I stand here today as an ally. I am surely an imperfect one, which is to say I am human, like all of you. I will disappoint some of you for doing too much and others for doing too little, some for going too fast and others for not going fast enough. But I know in my heart where I would like to go, and that is the place where our aspirations and our realities finally intersect. I know that many of you, so many of you, would like to get there as well.

I look forward to our continued, imperfect journey together.

Best,

Jim
--
James E. Ryan
President
University of Virginia

MEDIA CONTACT
Brian Coy

btc6r@virginia.edu 434-243-2070


Trending
THIS WEEK
UVA Renames Building for Walter Ridley, First African American to Earn Doctoral Degree
UVA Renames Building for Walter Ridley, First African American to Earn Doctoral Degree MORE
UVA Intends to Start In-Person Classes in August
UVA Intends to Start In-Person Classes in August MORE
Today, Again, I Am Overwhelmed By Grief and Rage …
Today, Again, I Am Overwhelmed By Grief and Rage … MORE
Video
POPULAR ON UVA TODAY
virtual_finals_thumb.jpg
UVA Class of 2020 Virtual Celebration MORE
year_in_review_thumb.jpg
A Year We Will Never Forget: 2019-20 in Review MORE
jim_ryan_speech_thumb.jpg
‘What Will You Carry With You?' Remarks From UVA President Jim Ryan MORE

Latest Stories
VIEW ALL >
A mobile robot, designed to work in hazardous environments, has been modified to kill the virus that causes COVID-19. (Photos by Sanjay Suchak, University Communications)
RESEARCH & DISCOVERY
Mechanical Engineers Develop Coronavirus Decontamination Robot
(Photo by Kipp Teague via Creative Commons)
BUSINESS & GOVERNMENT
Students Who Lost Internships Will Help Rural Businesses in New Pa
Dear Washington University community,

To say that this has been a difficult and painful week would be an extreme understatement. Like you, I've watched with sadness and grief as events have unfolded first in Minneapolis in response to the killing of George Floyd, and then across the country as individuals and communities have taken to the streets to express their anger and frustration at the racial injustice that continues to plague our nation. The ongoing racial violence that we are witnessing against people of color is nothing short of devastating. In recent months, we have seen a rise in anti-Asian and anti-Asian-American violence, largely perpetuated by other Americans. In the last two weeks, we have seen the continuation of violence against Black Americans, both at the hands of officers of the state and private individuals. The events of the past several days reflect only the most recent in a long line of wrongs that have been inflicted upon our communities of color. 

Here in St. Louis, we are all too familiar with the refrain of those who are committed to addressing issues of inequality and racism – "No justice, no peace."Given our commitment to activism and social justice, it's no surprise that the St. Louis community has joined the call to action, and I'm heartened to see the passion that drives our friends and neighbors to make their voices heard. I also am deeply concerned for the well-being of our community and remain committed to working toward a constructive path forward in our region that tackles structural disparities and inequities.

I've spent a lot of time this weekend thinking, and engaging in conversation with other university leaders, about how we can best support our community and advance the cause of racial justice during this time – what we could say or do that would bring comfort to those who are hurting, and show solidarity with those who are taking action. Given the enormity of the issues before us, we know without question that words are not enough, and that no "statement"will begin to resolve the tremendous challenges that are still before us. And yet, there are some things that are important to say.

First, we must acknowledge those who are suffering. To our students, faculty, staff, and any other members of our community who are feeling targeted, unheard, or unsupported, we see you and are here for you. Our commitment to diversity and inclusion means more than just welcoming every person into our community. It means valuing you as individuals with your own identities, actively acknowledging that you matter, and unwaveringly supporting your right to be treated fairly and equally in every aspect of our society. We stand with you and condemn all acts of hate, aggression, or disrespect toward any racial group that may happen anywhere in our community, our region, our country, or the world. We are committed to supporting all members of our community, and we must redouble our efforts to achieve the equity that is foundational to fostering this environment.

In addition, we remain committed to making a difference. After the killing of Michael Brown in Ferguson in 2014, our Washington University community began the long process of looking inward, to see how we could create space for honest dialogue about race, ethnicity, inequality, and social justice, how we could "do better and be better."Since that time, we have taken steps as a community to become more fully engaged on these issues, and to work toward positive change. At our most recent Day of Dialogue and Action this spring, we reaffirmed our commitment to creating "intentional spaces to listen, extend empathy, celebrate, and engage in dialogue"in hopes of reflecting on our own humanity and the humanity of others. The events of this week are a painful reminder of how much work we all still have to do, as a nation and as a society.

Finally, we must take action. This includes not only supporting our community, but also doing what is at the core of our mission: leveraging our activities in support of research, teaching, and patient care to make a difference in helping to forward the cause of racial and social justice in our community, our region, and around the world. Already some of our schools have announced initiatives aimed at improving racial equity, especially focusing on racial violence. We anticipate announcing additional initiatives in the coming weeks.

The separation of our community due to the COVID-19 pandemic has placed an additional strain on our ability to come together to support, listen to, and learn from one another. We are all struggling with the disconnection from our peers, friends, and support networks, especially during this time of additional stress. But this only makes our need to create space for engagement within our community even more urgent, and we are working toward ways to do that in the days ahead. In the short-term, please stay tuned for invitations to opportunities to participate in observances and events that our leaders are currently planning. In the longer-term, we continue to listen and engage with members of our community to work toward substantive, mission-oriented action that we will take institutionally to make our city and our world beacons of opportunity for all. 

In these incredibly difficult times, I know there are no words that will be enough. But it's important for you to know that as a community, we are united in our commitment to justice and racial equity.

Sincerely,

Andrew D. Martin
Chancellor

 
Denouncing racial violence and the ugliness of historic, systemic inequality, President Kirk Schulz and the university's executive leadership pledged greater accountability in confronting racial and social justice failures.

"We must consider our own roles in maintaining systemic racism and accepting racial violence, even when it makes us uncomfortable,"a letter from the university system's executive leadership team reads. "When our actions are informed by the truth of others, we can move forward, together, courageously and realize the aspirations of racial and social justice. Only then can we begin to create an authentic space from which to proceed."

In addition to Schulz, the letter was signed by interim Provost Bryan Slinker, incoming Provost Elizabeth Chilton and all chancellors and vice presidents.

Enter search text
Search

All the UW
Current site
Skip to main content
MyUW
Calendar
Directories
Libraries
UW Medicine
Maps
UW Today
Helpful Links
Computing/IT
Workday/ISC
Husky Card
UW Bothell
UW Tacoma
UW Facebook
UW Twitter
University of WashingtonUniversity of Washington
StudentsParentsFaculty & StaffAlumni  Quick Links
UW LEADERSHIP
 
REGENTS
 
PRESIDENT
 
PROVOST
Office of the President
Home
Office of the President
Archive
Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
May 30, 2020

Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
Ana Mari Cauce

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do they see a strong, resilient, educated woman?
Do they see someone who is their ancestors' wildest dreams?
Do they see a woman who has friends and family they love?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do you only see my skin color?
Do you only see the stereotypes others created for me?
Do you only see your fear?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

My brothers and sisters are villainized for asking questions.
My brothers and sisters are detained for walking on a public street.
My brothers and sisters are killed for existing.

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

I wonder when I will be harassed for existing.
I wonder when the police will be called to my door.
I wonder when I will be the one mourned.

I'm terrified to go outside.

– Laura Cañate, MBA '18

The last few weeks and months have been a time of jarring contrasts. Community members donating masks sewn by hand to protect essential workers, while mask-free revelers flout distancing mandates at pools and beaches. Groups of armed white demonstrators march against stay-at-home orders at state capitols with impunity, while for Black Americans the simple act of walking down the street, jogging or birdwatching can be fraught with danger, and even end in death. Too many are left to wonder, as does UW MBA alumna Laura Cañate, ‘18, "when I will be the one mourned."

Many of us have seen those compelling "before and after"pandemic pictures of cityscapes around the world. The before pictures show buildings shrouded by pollution while the after pictures reveal majestic mountains or vast stretches of squalid, overcrowded houses in the background. It's like a veil has been lifted allowing us to see more clearly what was there all along.

Support and resources

SafeCampus
Bias Incident Reporting Tool

Bothell
Counseling Center
Student Diversity Center

Seattle
Counseling Center
Let's Talk
Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center

Tacoma
Counseling and Psychological Services
Center for Equity and Inclusion

Employees
CareLink

Periods of upheaval and crisis both test and reveal our character, as individuals, communities and nations. Over the last few weeks and months, I've written about the courage and creativity of so many in our community. I've never been prouder of our faculty, students and staff and I am confident that we can and will continue to learn and grow together, building toward a healthier future for all.

But first, we must seize the clarity this moment offers. Painful though it may be, we must face up to the inequities this pandemic has laid bare, and the ugliness that it has revealed. We ARE all in this together, I wear a mask not to protect me, but to protect you. And it is also unquestionably true, that we are not all on equal footing. There are class and race differences not only in who can work from home, and who must venture out, but in who has kept their job and who hasn't. While low-income and communities of color are more apt to work at jobs that require them to be there in person, these same jobs are less likely to come with health care or sick leave. These communities are more apt to be in neighborhoods characterized by overcrowding and with less access to healthy food choices and recreational activities, conditions that no doubt play a role in the fact that people of color are more apt to suffer complications and even death from COVID-19.

These structural inequities, and the institutional racism that they reflect, create and amplify the conditions that led to the appalling ugliness that we've seen in the last few days and weeks — laid bare once again by ubiquity of cellphone cameras. The post-pandemic goal should not be to go back to the way it was. We must do better. As we enter into a period where a new vigilance around hygiene and closeness will become habitual, and where we measure the consequences of our individual actions not just by their effect on our own health, but on how they might affect our family and friends, let's create a "new normal"where attention to issues of equity becomes habitual as well. In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up – or go back.

Laura, I see you, I hear you. I know the smart, strong, sensitive woman that you are. I know your pain. My brother has been murdered next to yours, leaving a hole in my heart and life that can never be filled. And to you and all Black students, faculty and staff, while I can only imagine what it's like to walk in your shoes because my light skin protects me from your terror, I can and will walk with you.

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor — say their names, see their faces, hear their cries. Weep, then act.

 

FacebookTwitterLinkedInEmailShare
CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2020!
On June 13, graduates, their families and friends will gather from around the world to join in celebrating the Class of 2020 in the University of Washington's first ever live, interactive Commencement webcast.

LEARN MORE
President's Blog 
Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
6 days ago

Empowering people with disabilities requires investment and innovation
1 week ago

Washington's universities are anything but discretionary
1 week ago

American flags on the HUB lawn
A chance to reflect and honor those who gave their lives
2 weeks ago

More
Subscribe

Email
Email

RSS
RSS

PRESIDENT'S TWITTER

INVITE THE PRESIDENT
Want President Ana Mari Cauce to attend your event? Submit a request.
University of Washington
Be boundless
Connect with us:
Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube LinkedIn Pinterest
Accessibility Contact Us Jobs Campus Safety My UW Rules Docket Privacy Terms
© 2020 University of Washington | Seattle, WA
A MESSAGE TO OUR COMMUNITY
Posted on May 31, 2020
The events happening this week in the Twin Cities, across the nation and here in Madison demonstrate the anger that members of our community feel over years of unequal treatment.  This anger demands meaningful action, particularly for those of us who are in positions of privilege.

I recognize that words condemning the tragic and inexcusable death of George Floyd are not enough. UWPD Chief Kristen Roman and her fellow Dane County chiefs are already engaged with the community to reduce trust gaps and improve safety through the Law Enforcement and Leaders of Color Collaboration. I appreciate the work that UWPD has done to ensure that its training and policies protect and serve our communities of color as effectively as they protect and serve other members of our community.

Our work extends beyond law enforcement to every facet of our institution. Although most of us cannot physically be on campus because of the coronavirus, we continue to work on creating a more inclusive and diverse community through the efforts of Diversity, Equity and Educational Achievement:admissions and recruitment:faculty/staff recruitment and retention:Student Affairs:Human Resources, our schools and colleges as well as within individual departments and units.

Each of us – particularly those of us who do not face the daily challenge of living amid inequity and injustice – must contribute to and lead the change that is needed. There are many ways to become more aware and involved. A list of resources is available on the DDEEA website.

Our campus has a long and proud tradition of helping bring about lasting change through peaceful protest. Thousands of people gathered peacefully at the Capitol Saturday afternoon. Unfortunately, a small number chose to engage in destructive acts that attacked already-struggling local businesses. I condemn this violence:it drowns out the message that needs to be heard and is likely to create backlash and more anger on all sides, rather than promote the changes that are needed.

I urge anyone participating in protests to engage in peaceful activism that drives towards systemic change. Use the power and privilege of your education to speak up, reject hate, racism and violence and use respect to build our community. Please take care for your own safety and those around you in this time of COVID-19.

Finally, I encourage those who are anxious or angry about recent national events to connect with the campus resources that are here to support you. These include the Multicultural Student Center, DDEEA, University Health Services and the Employee Assistance Office.

To our Black and Brown students, staff and faculty, I want to say unambiguously: You belong here, you are important to this campus, your lives matter and I am committed to your safety.

This is a time of unprecedented challenge but I remain steadfast in the belief that together, we can move forward toward a more just future.

POST NAVIGATION
Previous post: Planning for a safe return to campus
Dear UWM Faculty, Staff and Students,

Last Friday, I reaffirmed UWM’s commitment to supporting and protecting our diversity, equity and inclusivity. In the short time since then, we’ve seen our cities, region and nation erupt in protest in response to the killing of George Floyd by a Minneapolis Police Department officer. Voice after voice has joined together to condemn decades of institutional violence, injustice and failures in our criminal justice system. And rightly so.

Let me be clear when I express, both for myself and campus leaders, our strong and clear solidarity in support of black lives and with those who are peacefully protesting. The time for successfully transforming our society is now. We support those who are peacefully protesting and the change they will bring.

Your voices are important, and we care deeply about making positive change.

What actions are we taking now to make a difference?

We have been connecting our students, faculty, staff and others through the multicultural success coaches of the Black Student Cultural Center to ensure that safety and a sense of belonging are addressed, particularly as it relates to our African-American males.
We continue to provide resources on how to engage in both individual and facilitated discussions around racism and anti-racist education.
We continue to work with MKE Fellows, a program that focuses on African-American males before and after their entry to UWM. Contact Ray Anthony Fikes for additional information.
We continue to support our ongoing African-American Male Initiative which serves as an important recruitment and retention tool.
What action will we commit to for the near future?

Going forward and working in partnership with governance groups, we will institute mandatory anti-bias, anti-racism training for all members of the UWM family. More details on this will follow.
To set the tone for future discussions around race, we encourage all to visit the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History and Culture. This resource is an integral part of our ongoing diversity, equity and inclusion framework.
Once again, let me stress our unequivocally strong stance against racism, violence and oppression. Every person who sets foot on one of our campuses has the right to feel safe, respected and valued.

We see you. You matter. We care.

Best regards,

Mark A. Mone
Chancellor
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Stand with me, stand together: Black Lives Matter
DEPARTMENT(S): 
Office of the President
June 1, 2020
The past several months have presented unprecedented challenges for our community, the nation, and the world. Events of the past week have reminded us that while we are all focused on keeping our loved ones safe and healthy, the underlying inequities within our society remain. In fact, we must acknowledge that societal inequalities are actually being exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic.

The protests of the past few days, ignited by the killing of George Floyd, but truly fueled by the continued targeting, demonization, and abuse of black people across our country, highlight legitimate anger, which I share. The uprising we're now seeing points to the significant work we still have to do as a society to confront and eliminate racism. I stand with those who are outraged at the senseless loss of black lives. I offer my support to those who deal daily with racism and other forms of discrimination. I state unequivocally that Black Lives Matter; that racism, discrimination, and bigotry violate our values as a university and that they will not be tolerated in our community. I ask each of you stand with me, with us, and for your friends, your peers, your students, your neighbors as we seek a path forward. 

Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. paraphrased Massachusetts-born abolitionist minister Theodore Parker when he said "The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."That arc feels much too long these days. And we must acknowledge that it won't bend on its own. Each of us, especially those of us who are privileged, must consider how we can contribute to bending the arc toward justice, and do our part to make the universe we want to see. 

There is no perfect answer, no perfect action we can take, because these societal problems run deep and have been created and perpetuated over generations. Nonetheless, I truly believe that our community can and must do more to live our values and advance the causes of justice as we look toward the coming year. I pledge to explore that with you further as we start to come back together in the weeks and months ahead. I welcome your ideas for specific steps that WPI can take as we continue to seek to create a truly equitable community where all are treated with respect, and all can thrive. I know we can make a difference together.

This has been and remains a trying and turbulent time. Both the toll of the virus and the upheaval in the world are real. Dealing with the scale of what we are witnessing is especially challenging because we are not physically together. However, we can still lift one another up through our community. Our resources are here to provide support, including the Student Development & Counseling Center, Office of Multicultural Affairs , the Employee Assistance Program, or simply the comfort of colleagues and friends over Zoom. 

Be safe and well. Standing together we will bend the arc of the universe toward justice.

Laurie

WPI in the World
Global Impact Program
GLOBAL PROJECTS PROGRAM
About 
Let's Answer This Call of Distress
June 2, 2020

Dear Members of the UW Community,

As I am sure you are all seeing in Wyoming or wherever you may be, many communities around the nation are in turmoil in reaction to the killing of George Floyd, and to the history of racism, intolerance and bigotry and their terrible outcomes that this event signifies to people across the nation and across the world. Newspapers and television networks are showing daily what is happening in cities like Minneapolis, New York, Chicago, Washington, D.C., and elsewhere, telling a painful narrative of national upheaval that is perhaps unparalleled since the era of the civil rights movement of the 1960s.

The national reaction is widespread, and certainly not limited to cities. The small university community where I have lived the last six years, amid fields of corn and soybeans, experienced significant peaceful protests to show solidarity with brown, black and other communities. But we also experienced violence, including vandalism, looting and gunshots being fired. All three of our nearby towns of Champaign (pop. 88,000), Urbana (pop. 42,000) and Savoy (pop. 8,400) went under curfew Sunday evening for the first time that anyone I know can recall; a limited reopening of our campus was postponed; and numerous activities, even long-planned events that were to be virtual, including a board meeting I was to attend yesterday, were canceled.

This upheaval is a distress call to us all. It is a distress call that we must continue to be vigilant about the continuing racism, bigotry and intolerance that have no place in our community. It is a distress call from our friends, family and colleagues who, even if they are safe at home in this COVID-19 crisis and are not directly experiencing violence against them at this moment, feel a sympathetic nerve has been touched that causes pain very, very deep inside.

Yesterday, I had emails from two different people expressing the very personal distress they are experiencing as a result of recent events. One, from an African-American colleague, asked us to please know that black and brown people who may seem to be relatively removed from this turmoil are actually experiencing very deeply felt trauma in response to not only the recent events, but to what they signify about our society. She soldiered on and attended meetings, but in her words, "we are not OK" and need support. Another, from international Hispanic communities, urged international members of his research team to be very careful going out of their homes, or better yet, to avoid it completely. So, I ask you all to please think very deeply about these events, and especially to reach out to your friends and colleagues, and ask them how they are.  Ask them what you can do to help them.  Ask them how we together can help address the larger issues that these feelings reveal about our society. And commit to it.

Chief Diversity Officer Emily Monago wrote yesterday to our community to draw attention to these events and to reaffirm the values of the University of Wyoming, and I think it is worth repeating some of her words: "During these unprecedented times, let us remember our University of Wyoming values where racism, violence, sexual violence, antisemitism, homophobia, transphobia, sexism, ableism, national origin, and other forms of disparate treatment, injustices and inequities are denounced. Let us stay committed to our resolve to educate our campus community to interrupt, stop and eliminate inequities, injustices and violence from our society at the local, regional, national and global levels. Let us resolve to be a united community regardless of social identities or beliefs."

I want to reaffirm that the University of Wyoming does, and will continue, to uphold these values. Further, diversity and inclusion make our community strong, vital and vibrant. They are absolutely necessary for the excellence we strive for. They require a commitment from all of us, every day, to embrace our shared university values actively, not passively. And they require a commitment that we care for one another in order to create a sense of well-being across our community. I ask you all to do just this at this time in our history, and to commit with me to continue do everything in your power to ensure that our diverse university community thrives in the future. It will make us all, and the university we serve, better for it.

Sincerely,

President-Designate Edward Seidel




May 30, 2020

Lifting the veil: understanding the clarity this moment offers
Ana Mari Cauce

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do they see a strong, resilient, educated woman?
Do they see someone who is their ancestors' wildest dreams?
Do they see a woman who has friends and family they love?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

Do you only see my skin color?
Do you only see the stereotypes others created for me?
Do you only see your fear?

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

My brothers and sisters are villainized for asking questions.
My brothers and sisters are detained for walking on a public street.
My brothers and sisters are killed for existing.

I'm terrified to go outside.
I don't know what people see when they look at me.

I wonder when I will be harassed for existing.
I wonder when the police will be called to my door.
I wonder when I will be the one mourned.

I'm terrified to go outside.

– Laura Cañate, MBA '18

The last few weeks and months have been a time of jarring contrasts. Community members donating masks sewn by hand to protect essential workers, while mask-free revelers flout distancing mandates at pools and beaches. Groups of armed white demonstrators march against stay-at-home orders at state capitols with impunity, while for Black Americans the simple act of walking down the street, jogging or birdwatching can be fraught with danger, and even end in death. Too many are left to wonder, as does UW MBA alumna Laura Cañate, ‘18, "when I will be the one mourned."

Many of us have seen those compelling "before and after" pandemic pictures of cityscapes around the world. The before pictures show buildings shrouded by pollution while the after pictures reveal majestic mountains or vast stretches of squalid, overcrowded houses in the background. It's like a veil has been lifted allowing us to see more clearly what was there all along.

Support and resources

SafeCampus
Bias Incident Reporting Tool

Bothell
Counseling Center
Student Diversity Center

Seattle
Counseling Center
Let's Talk
Samuel E. Kelly Ethnic Cultural Center

Tacoma
Counseling and Psychological Services
Center for Equity and Inclusion

Employees
CareLink

Periods of upheaval and crisis both test and reveal our character, as individuals, communities and nations. Over the last few weeks and months, I've written about the courage and creativity of so many in our community. I've never been prouder of our faculty, students and staff and I am confident that we can and will continue to learn and grow together, building toward a healthier future for all.

But first, we must seize the clarity this moment offers. Painful though it may be, we must face up to the inequities this pandemic has laid bare, and the ugliness that it has revealed. We ARE all in this together, I wear a mask not to protect me, but to protect you. And it is also unquestionably true, that we are not all on equal footing. There are class and race differences not only in who can work from home, and who must venture out, but in who has kept their job and who hasn't. While low-income and communities of color are more apt to work at jobs that require them to be there in person, these same jobs are less likely to come with health care or sick leave. These communities are more apt to be in neighborhoods characterized by overcrowding and with less access to healthy food choices and recreational activities, conditions that no doubt play a role in the fact that people of color are more apt to suffer complications and even death from COVID-19.

These structural inequities, and the institutional racism that they reflect, create and amplify the conditions that led to the appalling ugliness that we've seen in the last few days and weeks — laid bare once again by ubiquity of cellphone cameras. The post-pandemic goal should not be to go back to the way it was. We must do better. As we enter into a period where a new vigilance around hygiene and closeness will become habitual, and where we measure the consequences of our individual actions not just by their effect on our own health, but on how they might affect our family and friends, let's create a "new normal" where attention to issues of equity becomes habitual as well. In this community, in our community, we can and we will continue our work to address issues of equity, racism and bias. The veil has been lifted. We cannot give up – or go back.

Laura, I see you, I hear you. I know the smart, strong, sensitive woman that you are. I know your pain. My brother has been murdered next to yours, leaving a hole in my heart and life that can never be filled. And to you and all Black students, faculty and staff, while I can only imagine what it's like to walk in your shoes because my light skin protects me from your terror, I can and will walk with you.

George Floyd, Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor — say their names, see their faces, hear their cries. Weep, then act.
Dear Warrior community,

Yet again our nation is rising in anger and sorrow at another senseless death of a black man, this time due to brutality exhibited during an arrest. I wish to share my thoughts with you about this terrible tragedy.

Unfortunately, racism and the disparate impact of violence in the black community remain national issues, but we should remember that each of these incidents involves real people. George Floyd had family and friends who mourn his death, and dreams that will never be fulfilled. My heart aches for this loss, and my sympathies go out to his loved ones. No person in America — regardless of their race, creed or religion — should ever fear for their life simply because of who they are or how they look.

But the fear is real, because far too often it feels like we’re living the same nightmare. How do we deal with it? We demand better of all citizens, particularly those we trust to keep us safe. We also come together — not in violence, but in protest against violence, and in sympathy for those to whom violence has been committed. The compassionate, inclusive and community-minded ethos that defines Wayne State is one of the things I value most about this university, and we need to draw on it now.

Even though we can’t gather physically to mourn, we can still support each other through the means we have. Wayne State University will host a virtual dialogue on Wednesday, June 3, at 5 p.m. We hope you will join us using this Zoom link (Meeting ID: 831 3199 8274. Password: 598720).

Another reason I write today is to remind you that senseless deaths and mishandling of justice like those we've seen in Minneapolis and Atlanta are precisely why we take racial sensitivity training so seriously with the Wayne State University Police Department. Our officers regularly receive training on how to act in all types of situations, with all types of people. We are now taking the lead in this important training with the establishment of the headquarters of National De-escalation Training Center (NDTC) with Wayne State’s police department. The NDTC has filed for non-profit corporation status with the State of Michigan and has already begun de-escalation training of sworn Wayne State University police officers. The training offered by the NDTC has been specifically developed and designed to exceed traditional de-escalation methods, with the goal of fostering positive interactions with citizens and reducing the number of needless and tragic encounters that result in injuries and deaths to both citizens and police officers. 

Here in Detroit, a city that has been ravaged disproportionately by the coronavirus pandemic, we may feel strongly about the injustice of George Floyd’s murder. We may be tempted to believe that there have been far too many senseless deaths, and that it is vain to hope for a better world. But I urge you not to succumb to despair. As a black man, I have felt personally the sting of racism. Instead of feeling defeated by it, I have sought ways to stand up to it: by mentoring minority students, opening people’s eyes to the benefits of diversity, and devoting my career to researching and addressing health inequities around the globe. I do so because it helps others, and it gives me hope that our country will find a way to reckon with the urgent need for change in how we treat and support one another. Let’s model that change, each of us, by treating each other with love and respect.

Sincerely,





Letter from Chancellor Robinson: Racial Justice
WSSU News & Information

Dear Ram Family,

Against the backdrop of a global pandemic that is disproportionately impacting African Americans, we again find ourselves assailed with horrific images that remind us of the reality of racism in America. While the memories of Ahmaud Arbery and Breonna Taylor are still fresh, we experience the video of a white police officer kneeling on George Floyd's neck while Mr. Floyd gasps, "I can't breathe" as his life is snuffed out. We are once again reminded of James Baldwin's writing on the failure of human rights and social justice: "We have emptied oceans with homemade spoons and tore down mountains with our hands."

Black America is accustomed to institutional racism in its many facets; however, it can often seem as though our efforts to eradicate it have too little effect. While I don't condone violence as a means to an end, I do support our fellow citizens' right to peacefully protest the inequities and injustice in our society. The fury and grief that people are feeling speak to the institutionalized intolerance, discrimination, marginalization, and bigotry that have existed in this country—and our world—for centuries. 

But what must be our response to darkness? We must always move together toward the light. We must continue to say yes to life—and it is often found in terrible places like racist policies, beliefs, and practices; nevertheless, that is life. 

James Baldwin once again gives us a path forward: 

"For nothing is fixed, forever and forever and forever, it is not fixed; the earth is always shifting, the light is always changing, the sea does not cease to grind down rock. Generations do not cease to be born, and we are responsible to them because we are the only witness they have.

The sea rises, the light fails, lovers cling to each other, and children cling to us. The moment we cease to hold each other, the moment we break faith with one another, the sea engulfs us and the light goes out."

As I consider this national crisis, I am reminded of our university's rich history and its contributions to the advancement of social justice and equity in our society. Consider our motto: "Enter to Learn. Depart to Serve." Our service as members of the Ram Family can—and should—include helping to eradicate the cancer that is racism in America. As long as we keep the light shining on racism, we have a chance of eliminating it. But we have to stay vigilant, because it's always omnipresent. And we have to hold up one another. 

This journey toward a more enlightened America has been—and will continue to be—a rocky road. We must uplift one another, support one another, and advocate for one another in all spaces and places where we have a voice. We must find ways to protest peacefully, vote and run for office, and commit ourselves anew to the work we do at Winston-Salem State. Our students are the next generation of leaders; we need their energy and effort to carry the torch as we work toward peace, justice, and equality.

 Please know my heart is with you, Rams. Be safe. 

 Sincerely,

Elwood L. Robinson, Ph.D.

Tags: Chancellor
More News

Black lives matter.  We stand with those protesting the racist killing of George Floyd. Too many have been killed: Breonna Taylor, Ahmard Arbery, Michael Brown, Tamir Rice, Quanice Hayes, Aiyana Jones, Eric Garner, Stephon Clark, Sandra Bland, Kendra James, Trayvon Martin, and the list goes on. We stand with those protesting long-standing racial injustice. We are acutely aware that machine learning algorithms trained with data that embodies the racial and social injustices of today will perpetuate and amplify these injustices in the future. Already we have witnessed applications of ML in law enforcement, policing, hiring, healthcare, and education that replicate or amplify existing biases. Any technology that unintentionally or by design marginalizes, excludes, or harms Black communities is damaging and dangerous. We recognize the hard work done by fellow ML researchers to shine light on these ill-conceived applications, and call on the ML community at large to take accountability for the societal impacts and consequences that our technology has on society and the world. Women in Machine Learning (WiML) reaffirms our commitment to promoting diversity and increasing the awareness of women, particularly Black women, in machine learning. n this vein, we want to highlight some impactful groups working to support Black students, researchers, and professionals in machine learning and computer science more broadly: 
@black_in_ai @AJLUnited @BlackGirlsCode @Code2040 @Data4BlackLives @blkintechnology @NSBE If you’re looking for specific ways to support the Black Live Matter movement, check https://blacklivesmatters.carrd.co
If you are looking for information about policing in your local community, check
Campaign Zero https://joincampaignzero.org/solutions and Use of Force Project useofforceproject.org #BlackLivesMatter
Dear Wright State family,

It is not enough to say that Wright State University has an unwavering commitment to diversity and inclusion. I want to express our horror at the tragic and disturbing events that unfurled in Minneapolis this week. This is yet another painful reminder of the persistence of racial inequity and injustice in our country, and it only underscores our responsibility to stand together in solidarity against acts like this and to promote equity and inclusion.

As president of Wright State University, I understand the limitations of a message like this, because it comes at a time when many in our community are in pain and angry. At the same time, I hope you know that I stand with you in these challenging times.

I want to remind our campus community of resources that are available to assist you. I encourage anyone who needs it to reach out to these campus resources to provide you with support, compassion, and understanding.

Wright State students can seek confidential support services through Counseling and Wellness Services by calling 937-775-3407. You can call Raider Cares, a 24-hour crisis phone service, at 833-848-1765 (TTY: 314-485-4345). You also have access to a Crisis Text Line that offers 24-hour, seven-day per week text contact with trained crisis counselors, by texting "LISTEN" to 741-741.

Wright State's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides support services for all employees, regardless of benefit eligibility. EAP services are provided at no cost to employees, and include 24/7 telephone access to licensed and experienced counselors, as well as work/life balance services. Call 800-227-6007 or visit the Impact Solutions website at myimpactsolution.com. Use member username: wsufsap.

Diversity is one of our greatest strengths. Our diversity of thought, culture, background, and experiences fuel our community's ability to thrive in uncertain times, consider thought-provoking opinions without incident, and nurture one another when confronted by great challenges.

We will never fail when we face our challenges together. We stand together.

Sue

Dear Members of the Yale Community,

I write to you today deeply upset by the killing of George Floyd while he was in the custody of Minneapolis police officers. Mr. Floyd's death follows a pattern of racial injustice that has become too familiar in our country and that amounts to a national emergency.

At a time when the American community must come together more than ever before, George Floyd's horrifying death shocks our shared conscience and indicts our shared failure. It can and must remind us of other similar killings and of the racism, nativism, and bigotry too pervasive in society today and throughout our country's history.

Over the past week, I have been thinking about two seemingly incongruous things—our sense of community and one of our most basic emotions: fear.

Since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic, legitimate fear has been very much with us, but not just about the virus itself, and not among us equally. From reports of racism against people of Asian descent to the unacceptable disparities in health outcomes and health care, there was every reason for us to fear for the safety of our neighbors and family members, and of some, sadly, more than of others.

At the same time, I saw nurses, doctors, support staff, and volunteers act with courage, selflessness, and compassion in our home city and around the world. We nurtured a growing sense of community, which gave us the optimism and hope that must ever be a cornerstone of our beloved country. It is in the face of that noble expression of solidarity that George Floyd's death has shaken us and the shared spirit of heroism we have aroused to fight the pandemic.

As I read the news reports of Mr. Floyd's death and its explosive response, I knew that many members of our community feel fear in their daily lives because of the injustices they have experienced and witnessed, and I thought of how fear so reliably leads to anxiety, depression, health deterioration, and anger, and also to aggression and even violence. Some of the protests have turned destructive, undermining the plea for justice all Americans must share. Fear is powerful, damaging, and unpredictable in its effects.

I believe that all of us at Yale must do what we can to replace fear with hope—and not with anything less than action. Here I have been thinking much of the life of the extraordinary Pauli Murray, a lawyer, civil rights leader, and Yale Law School graduate. She experienced firsthand the cruelties of racial segregation and suffered injustices. She knew fear. However, she wrote in her memoir, "Seeing the relationship between my personal cause and the universal cause of freedom released me from a sense of isolation…I would be no less afraid to challenge the system of racial segregation, but the heightened significance of my cause would impel me to act in spite of my fears."

I have implored myself—and earnestly invite you to do the same— to make direct use of Pauli Murray's wisdom. Her words remind us of all that we have been able to accomplish together because of our shared commitment to the common good. Since mid-March, we have saved lives in this pandemic. We have isolated ourselves, changed the way we live, and sacrificed to safeguard the well-being of the most vulnerable among us and prevent our hospitals from becoming overwhelmed. It is vital to remember that we have been united in easing suffering, improving lives, and providing hope during a turbulent and challenging period of our history. If we can do this, we are capable, all of us, of creating the America we must insist belongs to us all.

In 1945, Pauli Murray wrote, "As an American I inherit the magnificent tradition of an endless march toward freedom and toward the dignity of all mankind." We have so much more to do to foster and sustain an equitable society. Instead of feeling the isolating effects of fear when our sense of community is shaken, we must remember that we are connected in more ways than we are divided. And that where we are divided, we must work, now, in the interest of unity and justice. This is a matter of the highest importance.

So, let us act as Pauli Murray would have us act toward those we know well but also those to whom we are connected simply by a common and powerful dream. I am grateful that you and I share Yale and its mission to improve the world today and for future generations. In looking forward to the work we have ahead of us, I wish you peace and strength.

With best wishes for your health and safety,

Peter Salovey
President
Chris Argyris Professor of Psychology
