We are the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE). We take each of those words and our collective identity very seriously.
We’re American. We recall that this nation was born in rebellion to oppressive tyranny and that no oppressor has ever gladly surrendered his position. We’re American. We know that nativism has never been our strength; rather we have embraced the world and taken our strength from all the peoples of the world, including those who were already here.
We are a Society. We are a community of shared interests and purposes. Prominent among our shared interests is diversity, equity, and inclusion. We have spoken out forcefully in this regard time and time again including our February 1, 2017 statement on the US President’s executive orders on immigration.
We are Engineers. We understand that diversity, equity, and inclusion are essential to the quality of what engineers produce. It’s not a “nice to have”—it is essential. Circumstances or actions that impede diversity, equity, and inclusion are inimical to good engineering practice.
We are Educators. Whether we stand in research labs, classrooms, factory floors, or boardrooms, we seek to enlighten others to what we know and what we are learning. We seek to facilitate opportunities for all to learn to the best of their abilities, and to hold ourselves accountable for the quality of our facilitation. We recognize historical and systemic inequities in opportunities and preparation to learn and seek to ensure equitable access and success in education.
The murder of Mr. George Floyd, like that of so many others before him, was a heinous act. But it was not a singular act, or an isolated act. It was part of a pervasive pattern and practice of learned, ingrained, and automatic behaviors that have and will require persistent, consistent, and resistant action to limit and eventually reverse.
We recognize our limitations, but believe that by working together as ASEE members and in collaboration with others, we can contribute to advancing and sustaining the deep and wide change that will be necessary for this nation to begin to achieve the aspirational words that are the preamble to the US Constitution – . . . forming a more perfect Union, establishing Justice, insuring domestic Tranquility, . . . promoting the general Welfare, and securing the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity.