The unrest following the abhorrent viral video of George Floyd’s murder has led many of us to have real conversations with our children and families about the ugly reality of racism in America; leaving a sense of hopelessness.

How can we tell our girls (and boys) they have the capability to become the next tech CEO and in the same breath detail precautions to take when encountering individuals who are supposed to protect and serve? How can we encourage our girls to show up in society as their authentic selves when we bear witness to countless incidents that illustrate the disregard for Black humanity? How do we tell our girls there are no limits on their dreams when even in the year 2020 racial barriers continue to pervade our daily lives? There is no specific code for how to handle these traumatic incidents when they arise, but we know it starts with being intentional about keeping our children informed, empowered, and hopeful.

At Black Girls CODE, the core of our mission is to empower young women of color between the ages of 7–17 to embrace the current tech marketplace as builders and creators by introducing them to skills in computer programming and technology. Yet the foundation of our work is about so much more than just teaching our girls to write a line of code. The focus of our work is centered on teaching our girls to embrace self-actualization, self-confidence, and self efficacy; we uplift racial justice and equity so that our girls can not only survive but thrive within spaces in the fullness of their unique selves.

We must not let these incidents diminish their sense of pride, but rather use them as fuel to face these obstacles head-on, go further, reach higher and rise. Staying true to the vision of creating brighter futures for our girls, our organization will be here to support our community through this difficult time and for every step on the journey towards healing. We want to express our gratitude to those who have rallied around BGC and have made contributions to ensure we can continue to do meaningful work, especially amid uncertain times.

At times like these we are even more assured that our work is timely and relevant. We will push on together to create space for a better world for our girls, their families, and the beloved community.