I stand in solidarity. We are living in unprecedented times, and today I come to you with a heavy heart. The needless death of George Floyd in Minneapolis, and the fringe violence it has spawned across the country under the guise of peaceful protests weigh heavily on me.

No man, woman or child should live in fear of police in our great nation. Mr. Floyd's senseless death demonstrates that some people sworn to protect and serve continue to take lives of black men, black women and children under the pretense of law enforcement. 

These callous and unwarranted killings must stop. Until they do, no American should sit idly by while they continue. Our actions should not be reactive and random, but rather, like our great Civil Rights Leaders of the 1960s movement, our actions should be strategically planned, coordinated and executed to impact CHANGE.

As a black man who has raised two black sons, I long for the day when I need not fear for my life, or the lives of my sons living our everyday lives. Too often black skin- provokes fear among out white neighbors and coworkers. That fear has given license for ill-trained, hyper-aggressive or prejudicial police officers to take black lives without cause or consequence. 

In America, it is not enough to just say that we stand for the guiding principles of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness without concern for gender, race or religion. We must actively live these principles every day. When we see injustice big or small in a grocery store, at our workplace, or on the street, we must act.

President Barak Obama stated that "If we want our children to grow up in a nation that lives up to its highest ideals, we can and must do better." We all should stand by those words.

We must let our leaders know, and those legally endowed with the power of life and death know, that this behavior is reprehensible, unacceptable, and will not be tolerated.

One of our greatest powers in the right to vote. It goes beyond acknowledgment and includes registering to vote, getting friends and relatives registered, and making sure that citizens are not denied their constitutional right to vote.

As I prepare to begin my journey as president of Central State University in July, I stand ready to work with any and all from our campus and the broader community to make sure our nation is safe for everyone, and that every citizen is empowered to make the changes needed to keep America the shining beacon of hope for freedom-loving people all over the world.

-Dr. Jack Thomas