To our Viking family,

We are living in some of the darkest hours of our time over-100,000 lives have been lost to the COVID-19 pandemic, over 40 million Americans have lost their jobs, and there is social protest across the country because of the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. Like you, I am experiencing a multitude of emotions- anger, frustration, heartbreak- by the unjust events that recently occurred and continue to occur, to African-American men and women and other people of color in this country.

I am also hopeful when I see individuals from all races protesting these social injustices, when I see citizens around the nation and around the world walking hand-in-hand advocating for change, and when I see those that are sworn to protect and serve kneeling in support.
 
We are witnessing the enormity of our countries pain anger and demands for justice. People have issued the clarion call for change however we know sustain change takes commitment and perseverance.

As an institution of higher education it is our responsibility to educate and inform as well as to provide a platform for civil discourse in action. There is a continued need for strategies and actions to address racial and social injustices. No doubt, this is a crucial moment in our history. 

We have an opportunity for such dialogue tomorrow during the virtual meeting sponsored by the division of student affairs – we can't breathe. We will continue to offer opportunities for our faculty, staff and students to Come together in and give voice to these issues.

Our resolve is together. As Vikings, we can conquer together Dash supporting and collaborating. I appreciate our campus community, now more than ever. 

ECS you pride itself on creating a supportive, nurturing environment for our students. We remain committed to having an inclusive environment, while we honor and celebrate our diversity. It is with open hearts and open minds that we will be the difference. My thoughts and prayers go to each of you, our Viking family.