The current state of affairs in our nation today saddens and
enrages me.  Equal justice under the law
is a cornerstone of liberty, but this was not the case with Mr. George
Floyd.  He was murdered by a white
Minneapolis policeman who put his knee on Mr. Floyd's neck until he died.  The policeman in question and those who stood around and watched this crime being committed have now been arrested, but
should have been arrested immediately. 
It is my hope that they will all be prosecuted to the fullest extent of
the law. 
As president of Hampton University and one who witnessed and
participated in the Civil Rights Movement of the 1950's and 1960's, I am
pleased to see those who have initiated peaceful protests expressing their
concerns about police brutality, particularly towards African Americans.  During the late 1950's and 1960's, I participated
in marches and other peaceful protests that were led by Dr. Martin Luther King,
Jr.  I was also the vice-president of a statewide student Civil Rights organization. 
My father was a building contractor and Civil Rights
leader.  Therefore, our household was one of those homes that was a meeting place for the local organizations.  It also served as a rest stop for out of town
travelers who could not use public accommodations because of the racism of the
time.  For those travelers, most of these
visits occurred on the weekends and might include a meal, a glass of tea or
lemonade, a nap on the living room sofa, or an overnight stay.  Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. visited several
times although I do not recall him spending the night.  His brother Rev. A. D. King was a frequent
visitor and overnight guest.  Their
visits always included interesting conversations.  I shall forever be indebted to my father for
allowing me to sit in on some of those meetings.  He gave me permission to be present with the
proviso that I could not ask a question, venture an opinion, or otherwise
speak.  As he would say, "You are to
listen and learn."
In these meetings, there were conversations about successes,
failures, problems, promises, and plans for progress in the Civil Rights
Movement.  Some of the attendees urged
the abandonment of peaceful demonstrations and encouraged violent responses
that matched the batons, bullets, hoses, and dogs used by police against
us.  Dr. King spoke out strongly against
the use of these tactics.  He felt that
it would hurt our cause, and he was proven right.  In that same vein, I think that our cause is
hurt today when we focus more on retaliation and less on seeking police reform
and justice.
While peaceful protestors rally to make their voices heard,
the violence, looting, and destruction of property are not the solution. These
acts hinder the cause of justice that so many are seeking.  Peaceful demonstration is a part of African
American history, but engaging in the above-mentioned acts hurts our cause. To
be sure, there will be criticism for those of us who believe in peaceful
protest to achieve desired goals and objectives.

 

I do not have all of the answers, but three specific
thoughts come to mind.   First, now is
the time for us to again come together in our homes and churches to have
conversations about how we can move forward as a people and as a nation to end
police brutality against African Americans. Secondly, every municipality in the
country should establish a colloquium board to facilitate dialogue between
representatives of the police and the African American community to include
ministers, educators, organizational leaders, and other citizens of
good-will.  Thirdly, every state and
local police academy as well as other providers of law enforcement officers
should establish a mandatory class on policing in the African American
community.

 

While I cannot claim to know all of the answers to these
problems nor the timeline for resolution, I do know that nothing can be
accomplished unless we work together for the betterment of ourselves, our
communities, and our nation. Until this happens, justice will not served.  All of us must understand the immorality of
racism as we support the victims of racial discrimination.



