Dear ITC Community:
 
The uprisings we are witnessing in Atlanta and other communities are a collective expression of rage and exhaustion. The most recent publicly-known killings of Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, Tony McDade, and George Floyd stand in a generations-long saga of racialized brutality to which our communities are saying “Enough!”  Meanwhile, the masks we wear in public remind us that we are still reckoning with a global pandemic that has disproportionately resulted in the loss of Black life.
 
The Interdenominational Theological Center (ITC) is a seedbed for prophetic faith leaders who follow in the “Way of Jesus.” Black prophetic faith rises to meet these moments. At our best, we unequivocally indict the evil forces that limit the life chances of our people. Simultaneously, we must envision “beloved community” and organize God’s children to bring it into being.
 
Students from the Atlanta University Center, including ITC, held a successful nonviolence protest on May 31, 2020, along with members of the Atlanta Police Department, AUC faculty, staff and alumni. Protest is a part of the long legacy of Black religion and resistance. We are proud of the students and colleagues who helped to organize and mobilize these nonviolent public outcries for justice. We are also aware of factions who have escalated recent protests into destructive displays of violence.
 
I solemnly ask our students and community to keep watch and be careful as you participate in any ongoing protests. Guard your health and your safety. Wear a mask and try to practice social distancing as much as possible. All Black Lives Matter, including yours.
 
Be mindful that these public expressions of rage and grief represent one among many ways to respond constructively to this layered crisis. In and beyond this moment we must organize and mobilize our communities to build alternatives to the status quo. Our work as prophetic problem solvers continues.
 
“Let us march on ‘til victory is won.”
 
In faith and witness,
  
Matthew Wesley Williams
President