“Even as the global fight against the pandemic has forged new bonds and inspired acts of profound generosity, we are confronted again by old hatreds and the enduring legacies of anti-black racism and inequality. It is a familiarity that makes me deeply restless for change. Part of that change is the work we do here to learn and listen across lines of difference and to build a community grounded in trust and respect. Part of that change is our work to trace the roots of inequality and its pernicious effects and to equip our students with the understanding and insight needed to create a better world.”
Gender & Sexuality Studies and the Interdisciplinary Studies Department at NMSU grieve the loss of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, and so many others whose lives have been taken from them, their families, and communities by state sanctioned violence and murder. We also mourn the loss of Ahmaud Arbery and so many others whose lives have been taken from them by the agents provocateurs of white supremacy. As many already know, these poles of anti-blackness often operate in tandem. We stand in solidarity with Black people and all those calling for and seeking justice. Gender & Sexuality Studies and the Interdisciplinary Studies Department avow that Black Lives Matter. Black death also matters, be it at the hands of police violence or the multitude of inequities forced upon Black communities since 1619 that now claims Black life under the name of COVID-19. 
 
Gender & Sexuality Studies and the Interdisciplinary Studies Department at NMSU also want to share in the mourning over the deaths, harm, and sickness of indigenous peoples, especially those in New Mexico and the Navajo Nation, due to COVID-19 pandemic. We grieve these and stand in solidarity with you as you experience this harm to your communities while you also are dealing with the epidemic of MMIW (Missing and Murdered Indigenous Women) and so many other injustices, inequities, threats to your sovereignty. 
Our department continues its support for asylum seekers, migrants, Dreamers, and undocumented persons as their lives continue to be harmed by unjust policies and other forms of state sponsored violence, here and elsewhere. 
We join in solidarity. 
