The death of George Floyd has brought us to a point of inflection throughout our country, and it has done so for multiple reasons.

Mr. Floyd's death was captured on video, so we have been forced to see a truth we would rather not believe. That video is both heartbreaking and infuriating. No decent person could watch the extermination of a helpless human being in such a callous manner without experiencing feelings of true anger and despair.

We all have seen this story before, and far too frequently. We have watched as many, particularly men of color, have lost their lives to violence and hate. The circumstances may change, as may the individuals involved, but the result is devastatingly consistent.

Yes, we all have tried to say the right things after these incidents--we have expressed our disgust as well as our grief and sympathy.

Have we DONE the right things, though?

Have we challenged racism and ignorance, even when we see it expressed subtly in "polite company" by those we would consider to be colleagues or friends? Have we honestly questioned and explored our own biases and how they shape our behaviors? Have we worked hard enough to create diversity, and with it greater understanding of and appreciation for one another, throughout our networks and organizations? Have we been guilty of, despite our best intentions, moving on to the next crisis of the day and failing in our commitment to make positive change?

I have struggled to find the right words at this time, and to posit some answers for how we sustain the necessary systemic change. Maybe the questions I posed in the previous paragraph must be examined with unvarnished candor, thereby affecting our individual actions, our willingness to speak out and, as a result, affect those around us while strengthening our efforts to achieve systemic change.

I am extremely proud to be part of a richly diverse university community that is strengthened by its diversity. I believe NJIT serves as an example of what most communities should strive for, but that does not mean we can pretend what we have seen is not our problem. It is our problem, and we have a responsibility that we cannot shirk. Please join me in committing to not let this moment pass without becoming better as individuals and as a community. I welcome your thoughts and suggestions for how to accomplish those goals. My thoughts and prayers are with the family of George Floyd and all those who feel angry, sad, and powerless at this time. We must work hard to resolve the issue of racism thoughtfully, peacefully, and with accountability for those who disregard the value of life of our fellow Americans.