Like many of you, we are deeply saddened by the acts of brutality our country has witnessed in recent days. These images and stories are painful reminders of the persistence of racial tension in our country, and they reaffirm the urgent need to stand in solidarity with our community members of color, especially African American community members.

As Directors within OHIO’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion, we understand the limitations of a statement like this at a time when many in our community are hurting so deeply. The COVID-19 pandemic continues to pose extraordinary challenges, made even more challenging by the images of violence we see flashing across our screens.

At the same time, we know that some of you may derive great benefit from campus resources to support your psychological and emotional well-being. For this reason, we encourage all of you to seek out campus resources that can provide support and encouragement to Ohio University community members. Some of them are highlighted below:

Counseling and Psychological Services (CPS)

CPS provides mental health and adjustment services to students and also consultation to faculty, administrators and parents who support our students.

Psychiatry and individual counseling through face-to-face video conferencing or audio phone therapy are just some of the services available to students through CPS.

Staff members in CPS also make referrals to a wide range of support services both on and off campus. Students may contact CPS at any time by calling 740-593-1616. If calling after hours, press 1 to be connected to a counselor. You can also visit their website at www.ohio.edu/student-affairs/counseling.

IMPACT Student Support Meetings

OHIO students are encouraged to email diversity@ohio.edu to express interest in attending an IMPACT meeting, which is a support group convened for any Ohio University student who wishes to discuss special issues that may be impacting our community of students.

These meetings are facilitated by Dr. Kristyn Neckles, psychologist and embedded clinician for our Division of Diversity and Inclusion, on a by-request basis. 

Employee Assistance Program

Ohio University's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) and Work/Life program is offered through Impact Behavioral Healthcare Services.

The EAP is available to all Ohio University employees and their family members.

Visit Impact Employee Assistance (opens in a new window)(opens in a new window)and enter 'ohiouniversity' as the username under the heading Member Login to access informational materials and resources.

Program features include confidential 24/7 live professional assistance (1-800-227-6007) and more.

OHIO’s Division of Diversity and Inclusion remains unwavering in our commitment to offering support and safety so all Bobcats in their diverse identities and experiences can find support for their concerns, worries, and fears.

All staff members in our offices — the LGBT Center, the Multicultural Center, the Office of Multicultural Student Access and Retention/OMSAR, and the Women’s Center — stand ready to offer whatever support we can to our OHIO community as we work together to create a world that is safe, equitable, and compassionate for all. We are here for you - please do not hesitate to reach out to us if we can be of assistance.

In times like these, community is the strongest antidote we have to combat isolation and loneliness. You are not alone!