During its February 2020 meeting, the Philander Smith College Board of Trustees, voted to “double down” and reaffirm the College’s social justice charged mission statement.  

This action could not have been timelier as the supercharged atmosphere of political and social unrest blankets our country in a way that recent generations have never known. The death of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota was a tipping point for a nation that could scarcely afford to continue to rock the boat of racism and injustice. In response, a new revolution is being recorded and broadcast to the world. As we have seen over the past several days, our young people are not just reading about civil unrest in history books; rather they are – like all of us – firsthand witnesses and many are modern-day activists.

Philander Smith College is located in a city known for its pivotal role in the Civil Rights Movement. The 1957 Crisis at Central High School turned all eyes on Little Rock, as nine brave young people courageously endured trauma and turmoil to fling open the doors to an integrated education. The College is less than five minutes away from this historic landmark and so, we never forget . We never forget that we have a responsibility to produce leaders who care, who will work, and who might dare to sacrifice and suffer to ensure justice for all humanity.

In the midst of this public health crisis of consciousness PSC’s Faculty, Staff and Administrators are resolute in their responsibility to prepare advocates for justice who are determined to change the world for the better.  

In our efforts to do this, the Social Justice Institute at Philander Smith College exists to educate and inspire students, academics, administrators and community members to do the work of eradicating systems of inequity. We are committed to teaching our scholars to be more than responders to the provocateurs of racism, white supremacy and system inequities but instead they are empowered and equipped to become facilitators of methods and processes that lead to meaningful outcomes.

Indeed, they are heavy times. But we cannot continue to allow the soil to soak up the blood of our brothers and sisters without being moved to action. So, according to our heritage as an historically black institution of higher learning, Philander Smith College stands. We relegate our seat to those whose stake is not as grave as ours; for we understand that to Move Philander Forward ostensibly means to do our earnest best to push FORWARD the stubborn levers of progress in the fight for justice for all. 

Roderick L. Smothers, Sr., Ph.D.
14th President and CEO
Follow the work of the Social Justice Institute at www.rethinksocialjustice.org and on Facebook at www.facebook.com/SJIPSC