Message to Our Community
Saturday, May 30, 2020, By News StaffShare
To the Syracuse University Community,

We write to you in the midst of tremendous pain, sorrow, anger and concern. From scenes in Minnesota, Georgia, New York and beyond, we have witnessed horrific images reminding us that the sting of racism and systemic injustice is real.

Each act of discrimination and violence carries with it a significant and sustained impact, especially among those targeted. George Floyd is a visceral and painful reminder of the unique ways many of us—students, faculty, staff and alumni—have experienced discrimination and violence. We are clearly in the midst of troubled times, and while civic and law enforcement authorities bear a particular responsibility, we of Syracuse University are now presented with a collective and crucial opportunity.

We recognize the hate and terror that continues to infect each and every corner of our country and world. To face such truth requires compassion. We also witness the tremendous goodness found within our diverse campus community, and we fully believe in our capacity to create and sustain our common good.

The challenges before us might seem impossible to overcome, and we are all far from perfect. Our response must meet the importance of this moment, to build communities where hate and intolerance are not just condemned and rejected, but eliminated. We are now called upon to embody our values and embrace each other. We must choose—through our words, thoughts and deeds—to emerge as a stronger and more just community.

We grieve for the families who have lost loved ones and for those who are suffering. It is simply not enough to try to imagine what others are going through. We must have the respect and resolve to do something about it. When we engage one another with kindness and compassion, we are working to ensure the dignity and worth of all.

While distanced around the world, we in the Orange Community can bind together and act together, for the sake of our world.

With hope,

Kent Syverud, Chancellor and President
Keith A. Alford, Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer
The Rev. Brian Konkol, Dean of Hendricks Chapel