 Tennessee State University shares the pain of those mourning the loss of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We also share that same anguish, sadness and outrage for the other black men and women across the country who are victims of police brutality because of the color of their skin. Our hearts ache for them and their loved ones, and also for the city that we call home. Nashville has had to endure the seemingly unimaginable this year. The decimation of deadly tornadoes; the physical, mental and economic impact of a pandemic; and now a peaceful rise against injustice that turned violent. While TSU does not condone the violence that erupted during the recent protests in Nashville and nationally, the university sternly and unequivocally opposes injustice and racism. Our institution has a rich history in the civil rights movement, as well as the modern-day movement. Many of our former students helped integrate Nashville's lunch counters, a historic moment in the city's history. Today, our students, from around the country and here in Nashville, are leaders in their communities fighting for change. We must seize this opportunity to continue the dialogue to demand fair and equitable treatment for all Americans, for all Nashvillians. Dear TSU Family, Tennessee State University shares the pain of those mourning the loss of George Floyd in Minneapolis, Minnesota, and the recent deaths of Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery. We also share that same anguish, sadness and outrage for the other black men and women across the country who are victims of police brutality because of the color of their skin. Our hearts ache for them and their loved ones, and also for the city that we call home. Nashville has had to endure the seemingly unimaginable this year. The decimation of deadly tornadoes; the physical, mental and economic impact of a pandemic; and now a peaceful rise against injustice that turned violent. While TSU does not condone the violence that erupted during the recent protests in Nashville and nationally, the university sternly and unequivocally opposes injustice and racism. Our institution has a rich history in the civil rights movement, as well as the modern-day movement. Many of our former students helped integrate Nashville's lunch counters, a historic moment in the city's history. Today, our students, from around the country and here in Nashville, are leaders in their communities fighting for change. We must seize this opportunity to continue the dialogue to demand fair and equitable treatment for all Americans, for all Nashvillians.