The Texas A&M System condemns all racist behaviors, actions, and comments that tear at the moral fabric of our nation. The System is appalled at the deplorable and egregious acts of brutality by some police officers against African Americans. As the nation grieves, the A&M System is also experiencing sorrow and has devoted its platform to stand up against unjust racial disparities.

Based on diversity as a core value of our system, we denounce all forms of violence perpetrated against African Americans. The death of George Floyd, and many others, at the hand of police officers is a despicable and unacceptable outcome. Suffice it to say: IT MUST STOP. All forms of racism, from bias and micro-aggressions to racialized violence, create an undue weight on our faculty, staff, students of color, and administration. As such, there is a direct need to continue to educate and act on our values of inclusion and equity.

The Texas A&M System shall take all necessary steps to ensure that its employees and students are committed to the tenets of human respect and decency. To make a positive impact, we will make a unified commitment to translate our ideals into action for sustainable and proactive change. Equally as important, The Texas A&M System shall remain committed to providing an inclusive environment where all its members can thrive safely.

The A&M System believes all universities under the auspices of the Texas A&M Banner shall speak out against systemic and institutional racism at all levels. Likewise, we urgently call on all Texans and the nation to resist hateful and racist actions and refuse to drink from the bitter cup of divisiveness.

Dr. LaVelle Hendricks, Chair, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Angela Allen, West Texas A&M University
Dr. Carol Bunch Davis, Texas A&M University-Galveston
Larry Davis, Texas A&M University-Central Texas
Dr. Toney Favors, Texas A&M University-Texarkana
Dr. Manuel Flores, Texas A&M University-Kingsville
Elma De Luna-Gonzalez, Prairie View A&M University
Tim Gritten, Texas A&M University-San Antonio
Dr. Peter Haruna, Texas A&M International University
Dr. Lince Tiburcio, Tarleton University
Dr. Sherdeana Owens, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Dr. Christine Stanley, Texas A&M University
Dr. Julia Ballenger, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Joyce Miller, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Minita Ramirez, Texas A&M International University
Carl Greig, Texas A&M University-Texarkana
Dr. Corinne Valadez, Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi
Dr. Jennifer Schroeder, Texas A&M University-Commerce
Dr. Brenda Moore, Texas A&M University-Commerce