Tiger Family: 

George Floyd was a product of our community and a proud graduate of Yates High School. His tragic, untimely death has shined a spotlight on inequity and racism in our society. Protests that began in Minneapolis spread across the country and around the world. In Houston, peaceful marches in support of Floyd’s family and social justice have already taken place in the Third Ward. 

This horrible incident forces all of us to explore difficult and complicated issues related to injustice in America. While I would prefer to be able to meet in person and discuss the circumstances around Mr. Floyd’s demise in the context of our academic community, the COVID-19 crisis prevents that from happening right now. However, I want to note that the Texas Southern community has been, and always will be, a beacon in the fight against inequality. TSU was founded in 1927 due to racial discrimination by the state of Texas and has been a cornerstone in the battle for civil rights since its inception. TSU’s work around inclusion and equality continues in our administration as we create a place of inclusiveness and respect for thousands of students each year. 

I hope that you have the opportunity to explore your thoughts and emotions in a positive, constructive way with your family, friends and colleagues. The Office of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion is a resource for Tiger students during this difficult time and if you need additional support, please contact the University Counseling Center (713.313.7804) for help or you can complete this form to request an appointment. TSU employees can receive counseling through the Employee Assistance Program. 

Please remember that we are all Tigers – a strong community that is focused on your safety and well-being. We are working tirelessly to set up a systematic, phased approach designed to return to campus in the fall. It is my hope that the dialogue taking place in the wake of George Floyd’s death can be continued within our campus community at that time. Until then, stay safe and be well. 

As always, GO TIGERS!