Our nation is hurting with the death of George Floyd and what it signifies for many people. Mocking a senseless tragedy is not something to take lightly and this incident is under investigation.

Any U of A student found responsible for violating the Code of Student Life will face sanctions through the Code of Student Life process. Federal student privacy laws limit the release of student disciplinary action. The disturbing activities and captions in the video do not reflect our values and are contrary to our principles and priorities. We stand together to condemn this video and the message it sends. The Office for Diversity and Inclusion at the University of Arkansas grieves and mourns for the loss of life, including George Floyd, that has occurred recently and in the past because of racial violence, inequitable systems and the presence of disparities rooted in long-standing historical trajectories, inequitable practices and systemic structures.

We stand in solidarity with efforts to achieve a world where racism is ended through inclusive practices, and we continue to be committed to action that will move our campus forward in this regard. Safety, belonging, justice, equity and peace should apply to all members of our community and society regardless of the intersections of race, ethnicity, class, gender, sexuality or other identities. These ideals embody the Diversity and Inclusion priority for the University of Arkansas, and we stand in solidarity with efforts to achieve a world that is anti-racist and inclusive.

We are committed to action that will move our campus forward in this regard. Efforts that strengthen diversity and inclusion must be embedded in all that we say and all that we do in our teaching, research and service efforts -- just as it is embedded in the mission of the University of Arkansas. Our work to support a more diverse, inclusive, equitable and anti-racist campus environment (and world) matters, and the Office for Diversity and Inclusion will work tirelessly to support our campus community in taking positive action that fosters safety, belonging, justice, equity and peace. Over the past few years, we have bore witness to the unjust killings of George Floyd, Breonna Taylor, Trayvon Martin, Tamir Rice, Ahmaud Arbery and hundreds of others who did not gain national media attention. The notion that Black lives don’t matter is a result of the systemic racism and oppression of Black people and it continues today.

As president of the Black Alumni Society, I see the role of organizations, like ours, advocating for and expecting accountability, change and justice in these systems—this includes even our most beloved institutions. We look forward to working with others on this change. No person should have to fear being in their home, going for a run, spending time in a park, or interacting with law enforcement. Our lives matter.
Over the last few months, we have seen some of the best that this country can offer as people across the U.S. have come together to help one another as we fight this pandemic. During this time, we have also seen the ugliness of this country and how it continues to disproportionately affect people of color - namely, Black/African-American folks.

We have all watched as the lives of so many black individuals have been taken away in just the last few weeks. The Graduate and Professional Student Congress is heartbroken and angry. It is not enough to "not be racist" - we must take a stand and work to be "Anti-Racist." The GPSC stands in solidarity with, but behind, our Black students, instructors, adjuncts, professors, administrators, staff, coaches, alumni, and friends. We unequivocally condemn racism - such as what has been recently displayed in the murders of George Floyd, Tony McDade, Sean Reed, Breonna Taylor, Ahmaud Arbery, and countless others - and recommit to doing the work necessary to unravel generations of domination and oppression.

While these murders have not been in our state or on our campus, they are still felt throughout our community and remind us of our own history. From Silas Hunt to the Little Rock Nine, Arkansas is no stranger, in particular, to the legacy of racism in schools and higher education. We must do better.

As fear and unrest burn through our country, we must stand together as Razorbacks and do the work to take care of each other. We must speak out against violence and injustice and listen carefully to how we can each continue to learn and grow. We know better than to turn our faces away from ignorance and understand that "advancing with truth as our guide" is not something we can do alone. Anything less is a weakness that Razorbacks cannot allow. May we each do all we can to make our campus a place of justice and equity so that all feel The Hill is their home. Black Lives Matter. Our Black Razorback Lives Matter.

Our heartfelt condolences go out to the families and friends of George Floyd, Tony McDade, Sean Reed, Breonna Taylor, and Ahmaud Arbery.

