Message from campus leaders on events in Minneapolis
Carolina is committed to fostering an environment whereby the personal rights, lives and dignity of every member of our community matters.

Like so many of you, we have seen the recent events in Minneapolis where George Floyd, an unarmed Black man, died while in the custody of police officers. We denounce the actions of the police officers and support the decision to hold those responsible accountable.

This incident comes on the heels of similar acts of violence against Black people across the country. As we struggle to comprehend these events, we share your sadness, grief and frustration, and recognize the pain the recurrence of such senseless acts of violence and racism causes for so many members of our community. We add our voices to those calling for transparency and accountability.  

We are committed to fostering an environment whereby the personal rights, lives and dignity of every member of our university community matters. The events of this week underscore the important work of our Campus Safety Commission,and we are grateful for their continued efforts and collaborations with campus leadership.   

As we build our community together, even while many of us are apart, we hope that we all take some time to check in on each other. Next week, the University Office for Diversity and Inclusion, which seeks to unite our Carolina community and foster a sense of belonging and safety for all, will offer a space on its website for #YourVoiceMatters, where you may share your thoughts, perspectives and feelings anonymously. We hope you will participate.  

We recognize the stress these events cause members of our community, especially the Black community, and encourage anyone needing help to utilize the following  available resources. For students, you can contact the Office of the Dean of Students or Counseling and Psychological Services.  The Employee Assistance Program is available for faculty and staff.  

In solidarity and with unwavering resolve, 

