Skip to main contentSkip to search
VIRGINIA TECH™HOME
Universal Access Toggle
APPLY
VISIT
GIVE

SHOP

Resources for

VIRGINIA TECH DAILY

MENU

SEARCH
Virginia Tech Daily/ Articles/ 2020/ May/ A statement from President Tim Sands and Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity Menah Pratt-Clarke
Explore
A statement from President Tim Sands and Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity Menah Pratt-Clarke
May 31, 2020

Aerial view of Virginia Tech Drillfield
Dear Hokies,

As we reflect on a tumultuous week in the United States – surpassing 100,000 in the official count of deaths ascribed to COVID-19 and the boiling over of frustration and anger over the tragic and unnecessary deaths of Ahmaud Arbery, Breonna Taylor, and George Floyd - we do so from the relative safety of our quiet Blacksburg homes. Jarring images and videos taken by some of our own children on the streets of Chicago and Washington, D.C., bring home the immediacy of the crisis. It saddens us to know that many in our Virginia Tech community have lost loved ones, or have been traumatized by the events of the past weeks.

Dwelling on images, dramatic events, and counts can distract from the common truths that the pandemic and race-driven murders reveal. As great as our ideals of freedom, justice, and equality may be, the reality is persistently and pervasively falling short of what we say we are all about. From the marked disparities in COVID-19 illness and death across racial, ethnic, and economic divides, to the unrelenting burden of racism, past and present, systemic and overt, we cannot continue to expect incremental change and the goodwill of the majority to solve a multigenerational problem.

So what do we do? What actions can we take? While there is a place for protests, we must do more than protest. We have an opportunity as individuals and in our own communities to construct a microcosm of the society in which we wish to live. At Virginia Tech, we have anchored that aspiration in our Principles of Community, but principles only become meaningful if they are acted upon. Our strategic plan, The Virginia Tech Difference – Advancing Beyond Boundaries, takes the principles one step further to actionable priorities and accountability. Let’s work together to ensure that Virginia Tech becomes a model for a just and equitable learning community that prepares the next generation to lead in a new and better world. Over the next few weeks, the Office for Inclusion and Diversity will be working in collaboration with diversity directors, InclusiveVT representatives, diversity committees, advocates, and allies to identify specific action steps to work for sustainable transformation. We hope you will join in those efforts to help make our world a better place for all.

In the spirit of Ut Prosim,

Tim Sands,
President
Menah Pratt-Clarke,
Vice President for Strategic Affairs and Diversity
Those in the Virginia Tech community who need assistance or counseling support may contact:

Cook Counseling Center at 540-231-6557.
Dean of Students Office at 540-231-3787. Referral to a campus cleric may be made through this office.
Employee Assistance Program
Anthem at 855-223-9277
Aetna at 888-238-6232
Kaiser Permanente at 866-517-7042
Optima Health Vantage HMO at 866-846-2682
Hokie Wellness at 540-231-2233 (students) or 540-231-8878 (employees)
InclusiveVT at 540-231-7500
Office of Housing and Residence Life at 540-231-6205
Women’s Center at Virginia Tech at 540-231-7806
CONTACTS:
Tracy Vosburgh

540-231-5396

Mark Owczarski

540-231-5396

Top News
Article Item
Three people on a zoom call
Unfinished Conversations on Race: Education is key in combating racism, article
Article Item
Caption: Webster Santos (center) and the mitochondrial uncoupler team. Six males are smiling as they stand in front of a large window in Hahn Hall.
Virginia Tech drug researcher develops ‘fat burning’ molecule that has implications for treatment of obesity, article
Article Item
2020 President’s Award for Excellence recipients during celebration on June 4
Five employees named as recipients of the 2020 President’s Award for Excellence, article
TAGS
Beyond BoundariesCampus and CommunityInclusion and DiversityOffice of the PresidentStrategic PlanTop News
Map of Virginia with pins showing locations of Virginia Tech campuses. See All Locations link which follows provides details
Virginia Tech logo
GET DIRECTIONS  

SEE ALL LOCATIONS  

CONTACT VIRGINIA TECH  

University Status
Principles of Community
Privacy Statement
Acceptable Use
We Remember
University Libraries
Accessibility
Consumer Information
Stop Abuse
Policies
Equal Opportunity
WVTF
University Bookstore
Jobs at Virginia Tech
Strategic Plan
© 2020 Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University. All rights reserved.

Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linked In
Pintrest
YouTube
Share to Facebook
, Number of shares695
Share to Twitter
Share to LinkedIn
Share to Email