Important Message from UAB Leaders
by Tyler Greer
June 01, 2020 Print Email
UAB Community,

Integrity, respect, accountability, diversity and inclusiveness are shared values of our institution and are at the core of what it means to be a UAB Blazer. Everybody counts every day. The students, faculty and staff who comprise our richly diverse and inclusive campus — and take pride in living these values — are hurting, along with our community and country.

The senseless murder of George Floyd — fueled by racism and hate — is tragic, unacceptable and not isolated. The recent abhorrent killings of Floyd, Breonna Taylor and Ahmaud Arbery show a disturbing pattern and are proof that an intentional focus on the values we espouse as members of the UAB community are needed now. These incidents have continued to surface as we navigate the COVID-19 pandemic, which has highlighted the systemic health disparities in African American and Latinx communities consistently addressed by leadership in our School of Medicine, as well as uneven enforcement of social distancing executive orders and anti-Asian bias. 

Nothing we can say can heal the deep pain and fear in our community. But we can recognize injustice and actively and purposefully live for integrity, respect, accountability, diversity and inclusiveness every day. Do not let your concern subside. Be a difference for positive change.

We are proud of and affirm our student government association's condemnation of these tragedies and its message encouraging fellow students to take actions beyond words with "donations, signing petitions, safely attending protests, and exercising your civic duties."

There are many opportunities to get involved. We encourage all of our students, faculty and staff to learn more about and seek the resources and programming offered by UAB's Student Multicultural and Diversity Programs and Office of Diversity Equity and Inclusion. 

Self-care is important in times like these. If you need them, utilize the free counseling services UAB offers through Student Counseling Servicesand the Employee Assistance Counseling Center.

Please take care of yourself and each other.

Sincerely,

Ray L. Watts, President

Pam Benoit, Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs and Provost

Allen Bolton, Senior Vice President for Finance and Administration

Selwyn Vickers, Senior Vice President for Medicine and Dean, School of Medicine

Jim Bakken, Interim Chief Communications Officer

Shannon Blanton, Dean, Honors College

Tom Brannan, Vice President for Advancement

Jennifer Breland, President, Staff Council

Chris Brown, Vice President for Research

Andrew Butler, Dean, School of Health Professions

Curt Carver, Vice President for Information Technology/Chief Information Officer

Autumn Cypres, Dean, School of Education

Paulette Dilworth, Vice President for Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

Paul Erwin, Dean, School of Public Health

Will Ferniany, CEO, UAB Health System

Kasia Gonnerman, Dean, Libraries

Doreen Harper, Dean, School of Nursing

Ria Hearld, Chair, Faculty Senate

Mark Ingram, Director of Athletics

Eric Jack, Dean, School of Business

Alesia Jones, Chief Human Resources Officer

John Jones, Vice President for Student Affairs 

Lori McMahon, Dean, Graduate School

Kelly Nichols, Dean, School of Optometry

Kathy Nugent, Executive Director, Harbert Institute for Innovation and Entrepreneurship

Rosie O'Beirne, Interim Associate Vice President for Digital Strategy and Marketing

Robert Palazzo, Dean, College of Arts and Sciences

Russell Taichman, Dean, School of Dentistry

Tim Wick, Interim Dean, School of Engineering 