Immediately upon entry into the president's residence here at Wiley College, this picture greets you. Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. of the Southern Christian leadership conference (left) and President Lyndon B Johnson Center Wiley M Young Junior of the National Urban League (right) and Wiley College Alumni James Farmer of the Congress of Racial Equality (far right) discussing the need for federal civil rights, and the office in the oval office at the White House. Alas, the tone and tenor outside of the White House bore a different level of communication. Unrest. Protesting. Lynching. Jim Crowe laws and poll taxes were the types of calm communication forced upon a race of people who, too, were Americans. 

George Floyd's murder is a stark reminder, for a large swath of Americans, of the seemingly perpetual deprecation of life of black Americans. All of America now has a decision to make. Floyd's murder is one of several senseless killings in May and one of several hundred since 2000.

The unfortunate destruction of property is a result of a fever-pitched crescendo used to capture the attention of the person/place/thing whose attention, heretofore, has not been gained.

Wildcats, the picture above serves dual-purpose. We must all do our godly duty our godly best to understand and practice instruments of affective human communication. The decision of individual usage will weigh heavily upon the perch from which one sits. Second, since inception, Wiley College, like many of her sister Historically Black Colleges and Universities, have produced intelligentsia superbly capable of solving the challenges we face in this country.

Now more than ever, it is imperative we help this nation eradicate the societal ills used to kill unarmed black Americans; perpetuate the subjugation of an entire race of Americans, and help accomplish atonement through reconciliation. The foundation this young nation was built upon seems to have a plethora of faculty foundations which all seem to be discovered by Americans of color. Moreover, this nation seemingly also lacks the requisite skills to fix the foundation. Therefore, this said foundation must be imploded/exploded and rebuilt with all Americans contributing.

In the spirit of four father, James L Farmer Jr., practice peaceful communication as your protest injustice is occurring in our community by the very people pay to protect it. Should you find yourself in a space where destruction of property occurs, exercise sound judgment.

For we are Wildcats! Our history is replete with stellar examples of selfless Wileyites who served the greater populous, our college, and the nation. Today, more than ever, our service is needed. The clouds above will cover us- our ancestors speak from them. Immersion into the spirit of social justice (which permeates our campus) will gift you with the necessary tools needed for this fight.

Finally, as we go forth with glorious deeds to do, remember the ethos of United Methodist Church and John Wesley, "Do all you can to do all you can, but all that means you can, and all the ways you can, and all the places you can, at all the times you can, to all the people you can, as long as you can."

Inspirata Procedunt,
Herman J. Felton, Jr., J.D., Ph.D.