Dear Wright State family,

It is not enough to say that Wright State University has an unwavering commitment to diversity and inclusion. I want to express our horror at the tragic and disturbing events that unfurled in Minneapolis this week. This is yet another painful reminder of the persistence of racial inequity and injustice in our country, and it only underscores our responsibility to stand together in solidarity against acts like this and to promote equity and inclusion.

As president of Wright State University, I understand the limitations of a message like this, because it comes at a time when many in our community are in pain and angry. At the same time, I hope you know that I stand with you in these challenging times.

I want to remind our campus community of resources that are available to assist you. I encourage anyone who needs it to reach out to these campus resources to provide you with support, compassion, and understanding.

Wright State students can seek confidential support services through Counseling and Wellness Services by calling 937-775-3407. You can call Raider Cares, a 24-hour crisis phone service, at 833-848-1765 (TTY: 314-485-4345). You also have access to a Crisis Text Line that offers 24-hour, seven-day per week text contact with trained crisis counselors, by texting "LISTEN" to 741-741.

Wright State's Employee Assistance Program (EAP) provides support services for all employees, regardless of benefit eligibility. EAP services are provided at no cost to employees, and include 24/7 telephone access to licensed and experienced counselors, as well as work/life balance services. Call 800-227-6007 or visit the Impact Solutions website at myimpactsolution.com. Use member username: wsufsap.

Diversity is one of our greatest strengths. Our diversity of thought, culture, background, and experiences fuel our community's ability to thrive in uncertain times, consider thought-provoking opinions without incident, and nurture one another when confronted by great challenges.

We will never fail when we face our challenges together. We stand together.

Sue