My dear students,

The merciless and unjust killing in Minneapolis weighs on me, as it does you. My grief mingles with an unknown seizing lament for our many dead a young man in Southern Georgia, a woman in Louisville, or alumni in Fort Worth, and so many known and unknown. We are brought to tears, clamoring for justice, asking "when will we expiate our nations original sin of racism and slavery? " 

The quick rationalization and excuses for these deeds are astounding in themselves, but effective within the American mind corrupted by its notions of race. Thus, an officer can say he was afraid... therefore he shot an unarmed man. Ms. Cooper falsely claims to be in fear and threatened, but strangely she is confident that the police will take her side. Her confidence is well-rooted in our history.

In the 1890s and early 1900s, when whiteness resurged to wipe away the gains of Emancipation and Reconstruction, the nation reasserted at the privilege of whiteness, a privilege to instill fear and act with impunity on blacks. Thus, came the clan, the mobs in the policies and laws to disempower folk of color.

Xavier was founded against the psychopathology of race in the belief that education is an essential foundation of justice. We know that injustice persists but have faith that it cannot last. Thus, we struggle as we much for real change.

Let us not be misled by those who urge us to destroy. Let us act for justice, walk prudently focusing righteous anger and pain toward the right action, always honoring the memories of our sisters and brothers we lost. Your minds and hearts are gifts. They are your best instruments as you take on the calling to build the more just and humane world.

We act on behalf of our dead and out of love and fidelity to the young ones, for a better world for all. An election is coming. Our most powerful action is our vote and unprecedented numbers. We will be heard.

Xavier awaits your return. Let your learning be your tool.

Be safe. You are ever in my prayers. Deo adjuvante, non timendum.

Blessed are you,
Reynold Verret
President
Xavier University of Louisiana